Name: Ahmet Ali Yanik

Description: My research group develops transformative nano-biphotonic biosensing technologies for point-of-care diagnostics, global health and drug development. We are currently working on Circulating Tumor Cell (CTC) detection (liquid biopsy) from human blood using nano-fluidic platforms for early diagnostics of cancer. Our research interests include power free stand alone technologies for viral infectious disease diagnostics (such as Ebola and Lassa) for resource poor settings. We are also developing high-throughput single cell analysis tools for drug development applications.

Title: Assistant Professor

Website: https://www.yaniklab.science/

Email: yanik@ucsc.edu

Phone: 831.459.3491

Address: Baskin Engineering, Room 257C

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/ahmet-ali-yanik/

Personal Website Text Short: UCSC NanoEngineering Group YANIK LAB - NANOENGINEERING About Research Impact Ways to Help HOME Back The Team Careers Latest News Support Yanik Lab UC Santa Cruz Contact Back Extreme Biosensing Rare Cell Isolation Nanophotonics & Plasmonics Phononic Metamaterials Back Publications & Patents Latest News Back Donate Join the Team About The Team Careers Latest News Support Yanik Lab UC Santa Cruz Contact Research Extreme Biosensing Rare Cell Isolation Nanophotonics & Plasmonics Phononic Metamaterials Impact Publications & Patents Latest News Ways to Help Donate Join the Team YANIK LAB - NANOENGINEERING HOME Scroll Alleviating Human Suffering Globally.. Support Our Research → Impact  → Extreme Biosensing & Global Health Solutions Fast, sensitive, portable and disposable infectious detection techniques are essential to prevent and control of future epidemics. We are developing point-of-care nanophotonic diagnostic technologies for early detection of Ebola , Zika, Dengue and HIV infections. Our ultrasensitive label-free detection technologies are opening door to development of diagnostic tests with PCR level sensitivities while offering revolutionary capabilities for disease diagnostics in resource limited settings. Read More → BioNEMS for Diagnostics of Rare Cell Diseases The Achilles heel of systems biology is its reliance on average responses of large cell populations . We are developing real-time high-throughput bio nanoelectromechanical systems (Bio-NEMS) for single cell screening and comprehensive analysis. Instead of using large populations of cells to statistically measure one set of parameters (e.g. gene expression or secreted proteins), we extract multi-parametric information from rare single cells in a non-destructive manner,  map cell lineages, functions, and genotypes in a high-throughput manner. Read More → INNOVATION  → Nanophotonics & Surface Plasmonics The ability to slow down, confine, and manipulate photons at sub-wavelength dimensions has the potential to reinvent most of the known optical phenomena . Almost all of the photonic technologies and applications involve some form of light-matter interactions . Nanophotonic  and plasmonic devices enhancing light-matter interaction by orders of magnitude in strength while enabling longer interaction times by slowing down the photons are key to future breakthroughs in nano-biophotonics and light harvesting applications. Read More → Phononics; Metamaterials & Acousto-MicroFluidics Union of phononic engineering and microfluidics could open door to previously unimaginable ways of tailoring surface acoustic waves and radiation forces for biomedical applications. We are developing phononic metamaterials and micro-electromechanical systems, offering unprecedented capabilities for manipulating and sorting of rare cells, bacteria and exosomes in microfluidic channels. Our goal is to introduce a new class of monolithic, compact, versatile and programmable lab-on-chip technologies with novel functionalities. Read More → Today’s students. Tomorrow’s leaders. In synergy with its research efforts, UCSC NanoEngineering Group is strongly committed to training  of highly skilled researchers, recruitment of next generation of scientists to STEM fields and engaging our broader community. Success Stories → Our Vision Bringing Innovation to Life.. Some of the most pressing challenges of today's integrated world are emerging diseases,  development of sustainable materials and renewable energy resources. UCSC NanoEngineering Group is developing novel on-chip devices to address these global challenges. We focus on development of photonic, electronic and phononic technologies and metamaterials, exploit these for innovative ways in BioNEMS and energy harvesting applications. From the very conception, our efforts are tailored in realization of practical high-throughput technologies for real world applications. Research Impact → LATEST NEWS → Yanik Lab Receives $3.7M NIH Grant For  the development of  low-cost, easy-to-use infectious disease diagnostics platforms.. Interdisciplinary Research At the nexus of engineering, physics and biology.. State-of-Art Facilities Micro-/Nanofabrication, testing and characterization.. Home Top Home Research Home Impact Home End “ If we want to resist the powers which threaten to suppress intellectual and individual freedom we must keep clearly before us what is at stake … Without such freedom, there would have been no Shakespeare, no Goethe, no Newton, no Faraday, no Pasteur and no Liste r” - Albert Einstein -  the Royal Albert Hall, 1933 SUPPORT the Council for At-Risk Academics About The Team Careers Latest News Contact HOME Research Extreme BioSensing Commoditizing Health Care Nanophotonics & Plasmonics Phononics & Acoustofluidics Impact Publications Latest News Ways to Help Donate Join the Team CAMPUS & DIRECTIONS UC Santa Cruz Directions & Parking

