Name: Alan Christy

Description: Alan Christy is an Associate Professor of History at the University of California, Santa Cruz. His publications include Ethnographies of the Self: Japanese Native Ethnology,1910-1945 (forthcoming), a translation of Amino Yoshihiko’s Rethinking Japanese History (forthcoming) and essays on modern Okinawan history and war memory in Japan. He teaches courses on Japanese and East Asian history, Okinawa, and historiography and memory. He is currently researching transnational memories of World War II in the Pacific between 1945 and 2005, as well as continuing his work on the history of ethnography in Japan.

Title: Associate Professor

Website: http://cspwm.ucsc.edu/

Email: achristy@ucsc.edu

Phone: (831) 459-5564

Address: University of California, Santa Cruz 1156 High Street Santa Cruz, CA 95064

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/alan-christy/

Personal Website Text Short: The Center for the Study of Pacific War Memories The Center for the Study of Pacific War Memories Home People Courses Projects The Okinawa Peace Memorial Park Project The Charles Gail Collection Eternal Flames: Living Memories of the Pacific War Giving Contact Menu "Honoring our Nikkei Roots," Saturday August 28, 2010 at Watsonville Buddhist Temple. Sponsored in part by Watsonville Santa Cruz JACL and UCSC. Akira and Hideko Nagamine (front center) with students and professors from Yokohama National University Map of the Mabuni Hill Memorial Complex Welcome to The Center for the Study of Pacific War Memories . The Center was founded in 2006 to support a variety of projects, arising out of the History Department, but engaging in strong collaborations with colleagues in other disciplines, other campuses and other countries. The premier goal of the center is to promote truly collaborative and truly transnational research into the legacies of the Asia Pacific War in the Pacific region across the 60 years since the end of the war. How has the war been remembered? What have these war memories meant for changing collective identities? In what ways have war memories become foundational to a wide array of social projects, from politics and economics to scientific research and cultural production? Most importantly, in what ways do memories of the war circulate between and among the societies in the Pacific that were effected by that cataclysmic event? How, in other words, do memories of the war make a region? A Project of The Humanities Institute The Humanities Institute at UC Santa Cruz is a hub for academic research, cross-discipline collaboration, and public engagement. We incubate ideas and foster innovation by funding projects, centers, and research clusters that enable faculty and students to work on some of the biggest problems of our day. The Center for the Study of Pacific War Memories A Project of The Humanities Institute University of California, Santa Cruz Skip to toolbar Log In Search

