Name: Alan Meier

Description: Alan Meier teaches core energy efficiency courses and supervises graduate student activities at EEC. Dr. Meier is also a Senior Scientist at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. His research has focused on understanding how people (and machines) use energy and the opportunities that exist for them (and technologies) to conserve.His research on “standby power use” in appliances—equal to 1% of global CO2 emissions—led him to propose an international plan to reduce standby power loss in all devices to less than 1 watt, which has now been endorsed by the G8 countries. His other research interests include energy use of consumer electronics, energy test procedures, rolling resistance of tires and international policies to promote energy efficiency. Dr. Meier is editor of the journal, Energy and Buildings, and the magazine, Home Energy. He is the author of many articles and two books, Supplying Energy through Greater Efficiency and Saving Electricity in a Hurry. Dr. Meier earned his Ph.D. in Energy & Resources from UC Berkeley after completing degrees in chemistry and economics.He spent one year at Waseda University in Japan and, more recently, three years at the International Energy Agency.

Title: Visiting Scientist & Researcher, Senior Scientist at LBNL

Website: http://eetd.lbl.gov/ea/akmeier//

Email: akmeier@ucdavis.edu

Phone: (510) 486-4740

Address: Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory
1 Cyclotron Road, MS 90R2000
Berkeley, CA 94720

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/alan-meier/

Personal Website Text Short: Page not found | Energy Technologies Area Skip to main content Energy Technologies Area Intranet Research Themes + Energy Technologies Area (ETA) researchers are continually building on the strong scientific foundation we have developed over the past 50 years.  We address the world’s most pressing climate challenges by bringing to market energy-efficient innovations across the buildings, transportation, and industrial sectors. ETA is at the forefront of developing better batteries for electric vehicles; improving the country's aging electrical grid and innovating distributed energy and storage solutions; developing grid-interactive, efficient buildings; and providing the most comprehensive market and data analysis worldwide for renewable technologies like wind and solar. Tackling the Climate Crisis Decarbonizing via Integrated Energy Systems Storage: The Key to Climate Solutions Advancing Water-Energy Systems A Just and Equitable Energy Transition Prioritizing Energy Efficiency Innovation Economy Strategic Initiatives + The Energy Technologies Area (ETA) Strategic Plan is the guiding force for our research and development for the next ten years. It clearly charts a path toward clean-energy solutions and focuses on five detailed Strategic Initiatives. The Plan provides an in-depth look at how ETA is accelerating research to provide affordable, clean energy to all while accomplishing deep, economy-wide decarbonization, looking to avoid a rise in global average temperature while simultaneously developing solutions to increase humanity's resilience to extreme weather volatility. Resilience Energy Storage Integrated Energy Systems Water–Energy Nexus Science for Manufacturing Publications News + For media inquiries, please contact ETA Interim Communications Manager Kiran Julin [email protected] Multimedia + Video & Animation Our Websites Social Media Media Outreach Join Our Mailing LIst About Us + The Energy Technologies Area (ETA) is unique in translating fundamental scientific discoveries into scalable technology adoption. Our approach combines an understanding of the marketplace and the role of state and federal regulation and policies. ETA's research drives real-world, practical results that affect and improve the everyday lives of Americans and those across the globe. Saving energy and battling the Climate Crisis are key to the foundation of our research, which is driven by technoeconomic analysis and in-lab experimentation and discovery. About Us + Diversity Staff ETA Safety Mentoring Software Tools Divisions + Building Technology & Urban Systems Energy Analysis & Environmental Impacts Energy Storage & Distributed Resources Search Page not found The requested page could not be found. ©2024 Energy Technologies Area, Berkeley Lab OUR ORGANIZATION Join Our Mailing List Organizational Charts History Intranet (staff only)

