Name: Alex Zettl

Description: Alex Zettl received his B.A. from UC Berkeley in 1978 and his Ph.D. from UCLA in 1983. He joined the Physics Department faculty at UC Berkeley in 1983. Currently he is Professor of Physics at UC Berkeley and Senior Scientist at LBNL. Awards and Honors include Presidential Young Investigator Award (1984-89), Sloan Foundation Fellowship (1984-86), IBM Faculty Development Award (1985-87), and Miller Professorship (1995), Lucent Technologies Faculty Award (1996), Fellow of the American Physical Society (1999), Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory Outstanding Performance Award (1995 and 2004), R&D 100 Award (2004), James C. McGroddy Prize for New Materials (2006), Miller Professorship (2007)Research InterestsMy research interests are in experimental condensed matter physics. We synthesize and characterize novel materials with unusual electronic and magnetic ground states, including low-dimensional and nanoscale structures. Examples are charge- and spin-density-wave conductors, superconductors, giant magnetoresistance materials, fullerenes, and nanotubes. Experimental characterization techniques include structural measurements (TEM, X-ray scattering) and the examination of general transport coefficients (dc and high frequency conductivity, Hall effect, thermal conductivity, thermopower), high magnetic field studies, high pressure effects, and velocity of sound. In addition we operate a high magnetic field cryogenic STM capable of manipulating and assembling individual atoms into interesting structures.Current ProjectsHigh-temperature superconductors: We synthesize polycrystalline, single crystal, and thin film and superlattice specimens of high-Tcoxide superconductors such as Y-Ba-Cu-O, Bi-Sr-Ca-Cu-O, and Hg-Ba-Ca-Cu-O, and perform isotope effect, intercalation, and magnetotransport studies. The goal is to understand the normal state transport and the mechanism of superconductivity. New superconductors have been synthesized and are being used to test theoretical models. Vortex (Abrikosov and Josephson) dynamics are studied in applied magnetic fields to 17.5 Tesla.Fullerene-based conductors and superconductors: Fullerenes such as the soccer-ball-shaped molecule C60are the basis for interesting conductors and superconductors. We intercalate C60single crystals with alkali metals and study isotope effects (both alkali and cabon), general transport, magnetotransport, and high pressure effects. The C60molecules can be polymerized into quasi-one-dimensional chains. These new air-stable conducting crystals display unusual phase transitions that we examine via conductivity, specific heat, x-ray scattering, and STM.Nanotubes: It is possible to arrange carbon atoms into near-perfect nanotubes— structures with diameters on the order of 10Å to 1000Å and lengths over 100µm. Theoretically, these tubes are the strongest possible fiber, and they are predicted to have unusual electronic properties (some are conductors, others insulators). We fabricate carbon nanotubes and measure their structure via TEM and electrical and mechanical properties using other techniques. It is possible to fill the tubes with other atoms, and to collapse the tubes into flat, flexible ribbons. In addition, it has been predicted that nanotubes containing boron and nitrogen, BxCyNz, may have many properties superior to carbon nanotubes for applications purposes. We synthesize such tubes and study their properties.Giant magnetoresistance materials: Materials such as La-Ba-Mn-O are semiconductor-like at high temperature and metal-like (with magnetic ground states) at low temperature. In the intermediate temperature regime (typically somewhat below room temperature), they may display an unusually large negative magnetoresistance. We study the magnetoresistance and other transport properties in order to understand the conduction and scattering mechanisms.Atomic-scale manipulation: We have designed and constructed a unique high-speed, high-field, cryogenic UHV scanning tunneling microscope capable of assembling and measuring the electronic properties of nanoscale structures, including superconductors and nanotubes.

Title: Professor

Website: http://physics.berkeley.edu/research/faculty/Zettl.html

Email: azettl@socrates.berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 642-4939

Address: University of California, Berkeley 341 Birge #7300 Berkeley, CA 94720 - 7300

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-alex-zettl/

Personal Website Text Short: Page not found | Physics Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation Physics Search Terms Submit Search WELCOME Our Community Our Nobel Laureates Our History Employment Plan Your Visit Contact Us ACADEMICS Courses Undergraduate Degree Graduate Degree Undergraduate Research Student Machine Shop STUDENT LIFE Study Resources & Tutoring Student Support & Advising Student Organizations & Mentoring VISITING STUDENTS The Berkeley Physics International Education (BPIE) Program BETA Physics: Berkeley Experience and Training in Advanced Physics Concurrent Enrollment & Summer Sessions REYES: Remote Experience for Young Engineers and Scientists Python4Physics RESEARCH & FACULTY Astrophysics Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics Biophysics Condensed Matter Physics and Materials Science Nuclear Physics Particle Physics Plasma and Nonlinear Dynamics Lecturers Emeritus Faculty R&D Machine Shop Quantum Physics NEWS Berkeley Physics Magazine News Archive EVENTS Department Events Colloquia Physics 290 Seminars Presentations Archive Secondary navigation HOME GIVING EQUITY & INCLUSION Quick Links QUICK LINKS Directory Contact Us Administration Safety Home Page not found Page not found The requested page could not be found. Department of Physics University of California 366 Physics North MC 7300 Berkeley, CA, 94720-7300 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE physics_admin@berkeley.edu Student Services Student Services Contacts Emergency Contact List (PDF) Privacy Statement Administration Finance & Business Services ERSO Guide Human Resources Development & Communications Building & Support Services Instructional Support Student Services R&D Machine Shop Website Change Form Website Policies University of California, Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration Berkeley News The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Follow us: Facebook X (formerly Twitter) YouTube Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright © 2024 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top

