Name: Alison Post

Description: Alison Post is a political scientist whose research focuses on urban politics, primarily in low- and middle-income countries. She has particular interests in the politics of technology adoption by local governments, the extent to which technology can change relations between citizens and government, and how new types of technology affect patterns of service delivery.Post is the author of Foreign and Domestic Investment in Argentina: The Politics of Privatized Infrastructure (Cambridge University Press, 2014) and articles in the Annual Review of Political Science, Comparative Politics, Governance, Perspectives on Politics, Politics & Society, Studies in Comparative International Development, World Development, and other outlets. She is currently the president of the Urban and Local Politics section of theAmerican Political Science Associationand chair of the Steering Committee for theRed de Economía Política de America Latina(Repal).Research interests:technology adoption, technology and transparency, urban infrastructure, water and sanitation, mapping.

Title: Associate Professor of Political Science and Global Metropolitan Studies

Website: http://www.alisonepost.com/

Email: aepost@berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 642-1434

Address: University of California, Berkeley

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/alison-post/

Personal Website Text Short: ALISON E. POST - Associate Professor, UC Berkeley ALISON E. POST HOME ACADEMIC PUBLICATIONS POLICY REPORTS TEACHING CV Associate Professor University of California, Berkeley Alison Post is Associate Professor of Political Science and Global Metropolitan Studies at the University of California, Berkeley.  Her research examines urban politics and policy and other political economy themes, including environmental politics and policy, regulation, and business-government relations. She also collaborates with engineers, urban planners, and scholars of public health on research on infrastructure and natural resource management, and “smart city” technology adoption . She works principally in Latin America, and recently in India and the United States as well. Post is the author of Foreign and Domestic Investment in Argentina: The Politics of Privatized Infrastructure (Cambridge University Press, 2014) and articles in the Annual Review of Political Science, Comparative Politics, Governance, Perspectives on Politics, Politics & Society, Studies in Comparative International Development , World Development, and other outlets.  She has been named a Clarence Stone Scholar (an early career award) by the Urban Politics Section of the American Political Science Association, and received U.C. Berkeley’s Carol D. Soc award for mentoring graduate students. Her doctoral dissertation won the 2009 William Anderson award from the American Political Science Association for the best dissertation in the general field of federalism, intergovernmental relations, state or local politics. She has served as a Marshall Scholar, a W. Glenn Campbell and Rita Ricardo-Campbell National Fellow at Stanford’s Hoover Institution, a postdoctoral research scholar with the Committee on Global Thought at Columbia University, a Visiting Researcher at the Centro de Estudios de Estado y Sociedad in Buenos Aires and the U.N. Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (E.C.L.A.C.) in Santiago, and as a Researcher at L.S.E. Urban Research in London. She is a former President of the Urban and Local Politics section of the American Political Science Association and Former Co-Director of the Global Metropolitan Studies Program at U.C. Berkeley, and former Chair of the Steering Committee for the Red de Economía Política de America Latina (Repal). Her research has been funded by the Hewlett Foundation, the National Science Foundation, the Swedish Research Ministry, and USAID, among others.

