Name: Allison Harvey

Description: Allison Harvey is a Professor of Clinical Psychology, Clinical Psychologist (License #PSY 22682) and Director of the Golden Bear Sleep and Mood Research Clinic at the University of California, Berkeley. Dr. Harvey is also an adjunct Professor in the Department of Psychology at the University of Bergen, Norway. Her clinical training and PhD were completed in Sydney, Australia. Dr. Harvey then moved to the University of Oxford as a postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Psychiatry and then became a faculty member in the Department of Experimental Psychology at Oxford. She was also a Fellow of St. Anne’s College. In 2004 she moved to UC Berkeley.Dr. Harvey’s research interests focus on chronic insomnia, understanding the role of sleep disturbance across psychiatric disorders (particularly bipolar disorder), and sleep across development (particularly during adolescence). Her group uses a multi-systems and mechanisms-focused framework to treatment development in which (a) cognitive, affective, biological, behavioral and developmental contributors to sleep disturbance are emphasized as the source for deriving novel interventions and (b) intervention research is used to develop hypotheses about and/or confirm mechanisms. She is particularly interested in comorbidity and transdiagnostic approaches.Dr. Harvey’s research is funded by the National Institutes of Mental Health. The studies currently in progress are focused on sleep disturbance in teens with depression, in adults with bipolar disorder and in adults with chronic insomnia that is comorbid with depression and anxiety. She serves on national and international committees such as the Executive Committee of the Academy of Psychological Clinical Science and the Research Committee and the Congressional Liaison Group for the Sleep Research Society. Dr. Harvey has published over 130 research articles and book chapters and has authored two books. Her research has been acknowledged with various awards including recognition from the International Society of Traumatic Stress Studies (1998), the American Association for Behavior Therapy (2003), the Beck Institute for Cognitive Therapy and Research (2005-2006) and NARSAD (2006-2008). Dr. Harvey received an honorary doctorate from the University of Örebro, Sweden in February, 2011.

Title: Professor

Website: http://psychology.berkeley.edu/faculty/profiles/aharvey.html

Email: nan

Phone: nan

Address: University of California, Berkeley
Department of Psychology
3210 Tolman Hall
Berkeley, CA 94720

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/dr-allison-harvey/

Personal Website Text Short: Page not found | UC Psych UC Berkeley Psychology menu Research Behavioral and Systems Neuroscience Clinical Science Cognition Cognitive Neuroscience Developmental Social-Personality People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Emeriti Faculty Lecturers Graduate Students Staff Graduate Graduate Program Admission Current Graduate Students Graduate Student Instructor (GSI) PsychBlog Psychology Dept. Ph.D. Graduates Undergraduate Academic Overview Academic Advising Major Requirements Minor Requirements Enrollment & Course Information Research & Discovery Weekly Opportunities Career Paths Resources Clinic Mission Our Services Our People Frequently Asked Questions Specialty Clinics Consultation & Trainings Resources Location & Driving Directions Resources Faculty & Staff Resources Finance, Grants & Contracts Building Resources Community Building and Cohesion HR / Academic Personnel Computing Online Reporting Systems Emergency / Safety FAQs PostBac Diversity Give Charter Hill Society for Psychology Make a Gift Search The requested page "/faculty/profiles/aharvey.html" could not be found. Department of Psychology 2121 Berkeley Way, 3rd Floor University of California, Berkeley Berkeley, CA 94720-1650 Phone: 510-642-5292 Fax: 510-642-5293 Email: psychadmin@berkeley.edu (not for use with clinic-related matters) Connect Facebook YouTube Twitter UC Berkeley Accessibility Contact Webmaster Share Your Alumni Story Add Event Login Make a Gift Participate Newsletter Events About Videos Copyright © 2024 UC Regents Photos : schofieldimages.com

