Name: Anh-Vu Pham

Description: Professor Pham is conducting research in RF IC design, RF, Micro-, Millimeter wave electronic packaging, phased array antennas, and wireless sensors. In the area of RF IC design, his group is developing understanding and circuit techniques for RF CMOS, wide bandwidth circuits, and linearization methods for power amplifiers. Recent developments include linearized amplifiers and RF building blocks for gigabit wireless and phased array antennas up to 60 GHz. In the area of electronic packaging, his group aims to develop high-performance microwave and millimeter-wave packages and modules in an organic platform to reduce size, weight and cost with increasing functionality. Recently, his group has investigated liquid crystal polymer for the development of a hermetic organic packaging platform to achieve high reliability for both MMICs and RF MEMS. His group is also developing integrated passive components (baluns, hybrid, Wilkinson dividers, etc) in multi-layered organic substrates. Recent developments include front-end modules for gigabit wireless and phased array antennas in the organic platform from X-band (10 GHz) to V-band (60 GHz). In the wireless sensor, his group is developing passive (zero power consumption) and disposable sensor nodes that can be used in a wireless sensing system. The wireless sensing platform can be used for bio, chemical, and mechanical-sensor applications.

Title: Professor

Website: http://www.ece.ucdavis.edu/people/profiles/pham.html

Email: pham@ece.ucdavis.edu

Phone: (530) 752-7472

Address: University of California, Davis 3141 Kemper Hall One Shields Avenue Davis, CA 95616

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-anh-vu-pham/

Personal Website Text Short: Electrical and Computer Engineering Skip to main content Menu Electrical and Computer Engineering Open Search Search Quick Links + Apply Directory Alumni Computer Resources Department Resources Emergency Services Job Opportunities Key and Access Request Network Access Request Room Reservations Safety Schedules and Classes Social Media Visit ECE ECE Student Organizations Main navigation (extended config) About Awards Alumni About UC Davis ECE Advisory Board Undergraduate Prospective Students Why Study Electrical Engineering? Why Study Computer Engineering? Join UC Davis ECE Frequently Asked Questions Degrees and Requirements Electrical Engineering Major/B.S. Computer Engineering Major/B.S. Electrical Engineering Minor Degree Checklists ECE Course Offerings Hands-On Learning Beyond the Classroom Career and Internship Resources Student Clubs and Organizations Student Resources Undergraduate Advising B.S./M.S. Integrated Degree Programs Annual Mandatory Advising Forms PTA Request ABET Online Educational Materials Senior Design Projects PTA Request Graduate About Our Programs Areas of Research Doctoral Degree Doctoral Degree - Designated Emphases M.S. Degree - Plan I (Thesis) M.S. Degree - Plan II (Exam) Prospective Students Preparing to Apply Application Requirements Frequently Asked Questions Funding Your Degree Admitted Students Current Students Schedules and Classes Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Resources EEC 290C and EEC 299 Graduate Advising Milestones Forms and Documents Faculty & Research Directory Computer Engineering Computer Organization and Digital Hardware Computer System and Hardware Security High-Performance and Parallel Computing Cyber-Physical and Embedded Systems Computer Networks Information Systems Information and Networking Decision and Control Signal Processing and Communications Machine Learning and Applications Integrated Circuits and Systems Quantum, Photonic and Electronic Devices Nanoscale Electronics and Photonics Energy Conversion Technologies Biosensing, Biophotonics and Bioelectronics Quantum Devices and Information Processing Photonics in Computing, Communications and Information Processing RF and THz Photonics Non-Traditional Imaging and Displays RF-to-THz Electronics and Waves Bio, Ag and Health Technologies Research Centers and Labs News Events Seminar Series Give AAAS Elects Chen-Nee Chuah as Fellow Read More Give to ECE This is your opportunity to invest in Aggie Engineers! Your gift will support the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. Learn More UC Davis Student Resources Information to help students navigate centers, programs and resources designed to support your academic career Learn More Online Educational Materials Online Materials Developed for Higher Education during the Pandemic Learn More Outstanding Research Making an Impact on People, Industries and Communities Learn more Upcoming Events ECE Distinguished Seminar Series Recent Articles College Honors ECE Graduate Student for Excellence in Research May 23, 2024 ECE Graduate Student Association Sparks Community May 09, 2024 Chancellor, ECE Professor Gary S. May Inducted to Georgia Tech College of Engineering Hall of Fame May 01, 2024 AAAS Elects Chen-Nee Chuah as Fellow April 18, 2024 UC Davis ECExpo 2024: Uniting Industry and Academia through Innovation April 15, 2024 Subscribe to Recent Articles Alumni Spotlights UC Davis Master's Program Stepping Stone for NVIDIA Senior Software Engineer November 29, 2023 Meet the Recipients of the 2023 ECE Alumni Awards October 03, 2023 Michael Coffey ’84 Brings an Engineer’s Mind to Business August 28, 2023 Subscribe to Recent Articles University of California, Davis , One Shields Avenue, Davis, CA 95616 | 530-752-1011 Questions or comments? Privacy & Accessibility Principles of Community University of California Sitemap Last update: May 15, 2024 Copyright © The Regents of the University of California, Davis campus. All rights reserved. This site is officially grown in SiteFarm .

