Name: Anna Scaglione

Description: Prof. Anna Scaglione received the Laurea (M.Sc. degree) in 1995 and the Ph.D. degree in 1999 from the University of Rome, “La Sapienza.” She is currently Professor in Electrical and Computer Engineering at University of California, Davis, where she joined in 2008. She was previously at Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, from 2001 where became Associate Professor in 2006; prior to joining Cornell she was Assistant Professor in the year 2000-2001, at the University of New Mexico.She served as Associate Editor for the IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications from 2002 to 2005, and serves since 2008 the Editorial Board of the IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing from 2008, where she is Area Editor. She has been in the Signal Processing for Communication Committee from 2004 to 2009. She was general chair of the workshop SPAWC 2005 and keynote speaker in SPAWC 2008. Dr. Scaglione is the first author of the paper that received the 2000 IEEE Signal Processing Transactions Best Paper Award; she has also received the NSF Career Award in 2002 and she is co-recipient of the Ellersick Best Paper Award (MILCOM 2005). Her expertise is in the broad area of signal processing for communication systems and networks. Her current research focuses on RF communications, cooperative wireless networks and sensors’ systems for monitoring and control applications, an signal processing for network science.Research ActivitiesAnna Scaglione interest lies in the design and analysis of communication methods for wireless networking. Driving her current focus is the question on how to coordinate unthedered devices in self-organizing systems capable of leveraging opportunistically on the decentralized resources available to transfer and process information. This focus includes the study of bioinspired designs for network synchronization and on cooperative transmission methods that recruit network devices to support the information flow in networks, with or without an infrastructure. This line of work includes her interest in large scale sensor systems aimed at monitoring the environment and critical infrastructure. In this area she works on decentralized signal processing methods for data aggregation, decentralized control and for reaching to consensus among network devices. She also works at the level of single communication devices, innovating and optimizing signaling methods and synchronization techniques for the future generation of wireless transceivers and for unusual media and bands (e.g. HF, Power-line communications). Her work is rooted in statistical, array and digital signal processing theories, where she borrows her tools for modeling and mapping the analog world captured by circuits and sensors, into digital signatures that are amenable to be digitally processed, finding ways for extracting their intrinsic information content.

Title: Associate Professor

Website: http://www.ece.ucdavis.edu/scaglionelab/

Email: ascaglione@ucdavis.edu

Phone: (607) 254-4959

Address: University of California, Davis Kemper Hall One Shields Avenue Davis, CA 95616

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-anna-scaglione/

Personal Website Text Short: Page not found – Electrical and Computer Engineering Menu Skip to content Home Not Found Apologies, but the page you requested could not be found. Perhaps searching will help. Search for: Search OK Archives No archives to show. Categories No categories Electrical and Computer Engineering | Powered by Mantra & WordPress. Privacy and Accessibility UC Davis Principles of Community

