Name: Arthur Keller

Description: Dr. Keller was a visiting associate professor of Computer Science at the University of California, Santa Cruz and is now affiliated with the Technology and Information Management program at UCSC. He taught Database Systems (CMPS 180) in fall 2001 and winter 2002. He taught Relational Database Systems (CMPS 277) during spring 2002 and covered database system implementation. He taught Relational Database Systems (CMPS 277) during fall 2002 and covered a survey of research papers on database systems. He was not scheduled to teach during winter 2003. During spring 2003, he taught Database Systems (CMPS 180) and Systems Analysis and Design (ISM 058). During winter 2004 and winter 2005, he taught Systems Analysis and Design (ISM 058).Dr. Keller was appointed starting in August 2006 to a four-year term on the Planning and Transportation Commission of the City of Palo Alto, California.Dr. Keller is also Managing Partner of Minerva Consulting, which consults for high-tech startups. His consulting clients include Serus, Target Mining Corp., Globallinx Network, Propel Software Corp., Virtual Giveaway, Broader Minds Corp., and Online HR.Dr. Keller was profiled in TechWeb on March 10, 2000.Dr. Keller also works as an expert witness on patent infringement cases.Dr. Keller invented technology for a “do not spam” registry with four students while a Visiting Associate Professor at University of California, Santa Cruz. This technology was licensed to Unspam, where he is an advisor and wrote the patent application for this technology. This technology is now used for the Child Protection Registries for Michigan and Utah.Dr. Keller was Co-Founder, Chairman of the Board, and interim CEO of Globallinx Network, which provided hotels with a turnkey internet access solution based on an in-room internet appliance.Dr. Keller serves on the advisory board of Serus, whose Serus Integrated Inventory Demand Management System captures real-time demand data and through patent-pending applications determines optimum inventory allocation and replenishment drivers in high velocity value chains.Dr. Keller served on the Technical Advisory Board of Propel Software Corp., which provides data management software that deliver unprecedented data access scalability, performance, and cost benefits for Web applications. Steve Kirsch is Founder and CEO.Dr. Keller was an advisor to Virtual Giveaway, which is a pioneer in turnkey advergame solutions. Kent Mar is Founder and CEO.Dr. Keller was Founding Advisor and Board Member of Broader Minds Corp., which helps high school students choose the college to attend. Arpan Shah is Founder and CEO.Dr. Keller previously served on the Advisory Board of Online HR, which helps Fortune 5000 companies with recruitment, relocation, and retention. Emily White is Founder and CEO.Dr. Keller was also Co-Founder, Board Member, and Chief Technical Advisor of Target Mining Corp., the targeted promotions company previously known as ccRewards.com, a name that was used for a consumer site with thousands of coupons from hundreds of companies. He co-invented the patent pending technology for Target Mining Corp. Dr. Keller left Stanford University to help start Target Mining Corp. The company shut down in 2002. Dr. Sanjai Tiwari was Founder and CEO.Dr. Arthur M. Keller until 1999 managed Stanford CIT’s efforts on collaborative engineering, workflow, and database security and coordinates relationships with companies. He was previously project manager for Stanford’s efforts on CommerceNet, including research on searchable online catalogs, providing services over the Internet, and concurrent engineering. He collaborated with the Tsimmis project on integration of heterogeneous databases for information finding and distributed constraints, and collaborated with the CEDB project on version and configuration management and distributed constraints for collaborative design. He previously managed the Penguin project on interoperability of object-oriented and relational databases, the Fauve project on federated autonomous databases, the Paradata project performing research on databases on parallel computers, and the development of DADAISM, a formally specified, modular database system in Ada that includes multiple interfaces at multiple levels as well as support for database security and integrity.He was Chief Technical Advisor (and was formerly on the board of directors) of Persistence Software. Persistence Software is the technology leader in the Transactional Application Server market, providing a foundation for distributed computing. Persistence accelerates the development and deployment of high-performance distributed systems. The Persistence PowerTier family of Transactional Application Servers includes PowerTier for Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB) and PowerTier for C++. Over 200 Global-1000 companies have accelerated the delivery of applications and ensured scalability using PowerTier’s patented object-relational technology. Persistence Software went public on June 25, 1999.He was also a Co-Founder (and was formerly COO and CFO) of Mergent Systems, Inc., which is commercializing Infomaster. Mergent Systems was originally called Epistemics, Inc. Mergent develops applications for the business to business e-commerce market. Its applications address the challenge of creating, operating, and maintaining industry catalogs for Internet market makers. Mergent is unique in its ability to deal with the issues facing net market makers including sourcing data from distributed sites, dealing with unstructured, missing or incomplete information, and providing fast and easy access to catalog and related information. Mergent Systems was acquired by Commerce One in January 2000 for about $200 million in cash and stock.His research interests include electronic commerce, interoperability of heterogeneous databases, database integration, object-oriented databases, database implementation, databases on parallel computers, federated autonomous databases, database views including updates, incomplete information and nulls, software integration and reuse, and large system integration.He received his B.S. in Mathematics and Computer and Information Science from Brooklyn College (CUNY) in 1977, his M.S. in Computer Science from Stanford University in 1979, and his Ph.D. in Computer Science from Stanford University in 1985. He was previously an assistant professor in the Computer Sciences department at the University of Texas at Austin.Dr. Keller is listed in Marquis’ Who’s Who in America, Millenium Edition.

Title: Research Associate

Website: http://users.soe.ucsc.edu/~ark/

Email: ark@soe.ucsc.edu

Phone: (831) 459-1485

Address: University of California, Santa Cruz Baskin School of Engineering 1156 High St Mail Stop SOE2

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/arthur-keller/

Personal Website Text Short: Arthur Keller Arthur M. Keller, Ph.D. Contact Information E-mail: ark@soe.ucsc.edu Office Phone: +1 (831) 459-1485 (please use home phone below for consulting-related matters , 
including expert witness inquiries ) Home Address: 3881 Corina Way Palo Alto CA 94303-4507 Home Phone: +1 (650) 424-0202 Home Fax: +1 (650) 424-0424 Office Hours: By Appointment Only Host of Forum on Electronic Voting, Sunday, October 26 Watch or read transcript of Arthur Keller's appearance on the News Hour with Jim Lehrer on Thursday, October 16, 2003 Interesting Quote from 1787 -- A Warning for Our Times? Recent Publications His recent papers are available online in PostScript and Adobe Acrobat form. Biographical Sketch Dr. Keller was a visiting associate professor
of Computer Science at the University of California at Santa Cruz and is now affiliated with the Technology and Information Management program at UCSC.
He taught Database Systems (CMPS 180) in fall 2001 and winter 2002.
He taught Relational Database Systems (CMPS 277) during spring 2002 and covered database system implementation.
He taught Relational Database Systems (CMPS 277) during fall 2002 and covered a survey of  research papers on database systems.
He was not scheduled to teach during winter 2003.
During spring 2003, he taught Database Systems (CMPS 180) and Systems Analysis and Design (ISM 058).
During winter 2004 and winter 2005, he taught Systems Analysis and Design (ISM 058). Dr. Keller served from August 2006 to November 2014
on the Planning and
Transportation Commission of the City of Palo Alto, California, including
as Vice Chair. Dr. Keller is also Managing Partner of Minerva Consulting , which consults for high-tech
startups.  His consulting clients include Serus , Target Mining Corp. , Globallinx Network , Propel Software Corp. , Virtual
Giveaway , Broader Minds Corp. ,
and Online HR. Dr. Keller was profiled in TechWeb on March 10, 2000. Dr. Keller also works as an expert witness on patent infringement cases . Dr. Keller invented technology for a "do not spam" registry with four
students while a Visiting Associate Professor at University of
California at Santa Cruz.  This technology was licensed to Unspam , where he is
an advisor and wrote the patent application for this technology.  This
technology is now used for the Child Protection Registries for
Michigan and Utah. Dr. Keller was Co-Founder, Chairman of the Board, and interim CEO of Globallinx
Network , which provided hotels with a turnkey internet access
solution based on an in-room internet appliance. Dr. Keller serves on the advisory board of Serus ,
whose Serus Integrated Inventory Demand 
Management System captures real-time demand data and through 
patent-pending applications determines optimum inventory allocation 
and replenishment drivers in high velocity value chains. Dr. Keller served on the Technical Advisory Board of Propel Software Corp. ,
which provides data management software that deliver unprecedented data access
scalability, performance, and cost benefits for Web applications.
Steve Kirsch is Founder and CEO. Dr. Keller was an advisor to Virtual
Giveaway , which is a pioneer in turnkey advergame solutions.
Kent Mar is Founder and CEO. Dr. Keller was Founding Advisor and Board Member of Broader Minds Corp. ,
which helps high school students choose the college to attend.
Arpan Shah is Founder and CEO. Dr. Keller previously served on the Advisory Board of Online HR, which helps
Fortune 5000 companies with recruitment, relocation, and retention.
Emily White is Founder and CEO. Dr. Keller was also Co-Founder, Board Member, and Chief Technical Advisor of Target Mining Corp. ,
the targeted promotions company previously known as ccRewards.com ,
a name that was used for a consumer site with thousands of coupons from
hundreds of companies.
He co-invented the patent pending technology for Target Mining Corp.
Dr. Keller left Stanford University to help start Target Mining Corp.
The company shut down in 2002.  Dr. Sanjai Tiwari was Founder and CEO. Dr. Arthur M. Keller until 1999 managed Stanford CIT 's
efforts on collaborative engineering, workflow, and database security
and coordinates relationships with companies.
He was previously project manager for Stanford's efforts on CommerceNet , including research on
searchable online catalogs, providing services over the Internet, and
concurrent engineering.  He collaborated with the Tsimmis project on
integration of heterogeneous databases for information finding and
distributed constraints, and collaborated with the CEDB project on
version and configuration management and distributed constraints for
collaborative design.  He previously managed the Penguin project on
interoperability of object-oriented and relational databases, the
Fauve project on federated autonomous databases, the Paradata project
performing research on databases on parallel computers, and the
development of DADAISM, a formally specified, modular database system
in Ada that includes multiple interfaces at multiple levels as well as
support for database security and integrity. He was Chief Technical Advisor (and was formerly on the board of
directors) of Persistence
Software. Persistence Software is the technology leader in the
Transactional Application Server market, providing a foundation for
distributed computing.  Persistence accelerates the development and
deployment of high-performance distributed systems.  The Persistence
PowerTier family of Transactional Application Servers includes
PowerTier for Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB) and PowerTier for C++.  Over
200 Global-1000 companies have accelerated the delivery of
applications and ensured scalability using PowerTier's patented
object-relational technology.
Persistence Software went public on June 25, 1999. He was also a Co-Founder (and was formerly COO and CFO) of 
Mergent Systems, Inc., which is
commercializing Infomaster. Mergent Systems was originally called Epistemics, Inc.
Mergent develops applications for the business to business e-commerce
market.  Its applications address the challenge of creating, operating,
and maintaining industry catalogs for Internet market makers. Mergent is
unique in its ability to deal with the issues facing net market makers
including sourcing data from distributed sites, dealing with
unstructured, missing or incomplete information, and providing fast and
easy access to catalog and related information.
Mergent Systems was acquired by Commerce One in January 2000 for
about $200 million in cash and stock. His research interests include electronic commerce, interoperability
of heterogeneous databases, database integration, object-oriented
databases, database implementation, databases on parallel computers,
federated autonomous databases, database views including updates,
incomplete information and nulls, software integration and reuse, and
large system integration. He received his B.S. in Mathematics and Computer and Information
Science from Brooklyn College (CUNY) in 1977, his M.S. in Computer
Science from Stanford University in 1979, and his Ph.D. in Computer
Science from Stanford University in 1985.  He was previously an
assistant professor in the Computer Sciences department at the
University of Texas at Austin. Dr. Keller is listed in Marquis' Who's Who in America ,
Millenium Edition. Courses Taught At UC Santa Cruz:
Database Systems (CMPS180), Relational Database Systems (CMPS277),
Systems Analysis and Design (ISM058). 
(See above for more details.) At Stanford:
Introduction to Databases (CS145),
File and Database Systems (CS245),
Distributed Databases (CS347),
Database Seminar (CS545). At Western Institute of Computer Science (WICS): Organizing Instructor for
Object Data Management,
Object Data Management Laboratory,
Databases in Modern System Architectures,
Internet Security, and
Electronic Commerce on the Internet. At University Blas Pascal, Cordoba, Argentina:
Introduction to Databases,
Distributed Databases. At Helsinki University of Technology, Finland:
Introduction to Databases,
Distributed Databases. At the University of Texas at Austin:
Data Management (undergraduate course),
Database Interfaces,
Data Management (graduate course). At TeX Users Group annual conferences:
An Intensive Introduction to TeX. At Brooklyn College (CUNY), New York:
Computers and Society. Advice for Undergraduates Click here for
a letter of advice I gave to Stanford undergraduate advisees that dates back to
1992.  It is still (mostly) valid. Recent Publications His recent papers are available online in PostScript and Adobe Acrobat form. Since September 8, 2001, this page has been accessed times. Arthur Keller , ark@cse.ucsc.edu

