Name: Ashok Gadgil

Description: Dr. Ashok Gadgil has a doctorate in physics from UC Berkeley, and is a Faculty Senior Scientist, and Director in the Environmental Energy Technologies Division of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, and a Professor in Civil and Environmental Engineering at UC Berkeley. He has substantial experience in technical, economic, and policy research on energy efficiency and its implementation — particularly in developing countries. For example, the utility-sponsored compact fluorescent lamp leasing programs that he has pioneered are being successfully implemented by utilities in several east-European and developing countries. He has several patents and inventions to his credit, among them the “UV Waterworks,” a technology to inexpensively disinfect drinking water in the developing countries, for which he received the Discover Award in 1996 for the most significant environmental invention of the year, as well as the Popular Science award for “Best of What is New – 1996”. In recent years, he has worked on ways to inexpensively remove arsenic from Bangladesh drinking water.Dr. Gadgil has received several other awards and honors for his work, including the Pew Fellowship in Conservation and the Environment in 1991 for his work on accelerating energy efficiency in developing countries, the World Technology Award for Energy in 2002, and the Tech Laureate Award in 2004. He serves on several international and national advisory committees dealing with energy efficiency, invention and innovation, and issues of development and the environment. He is also a member of the STAP roster of experts of the Global Environmental Facility. In the 2004-5 academic year, Dr. Gadgil was the MAP/Ming Visiting Professor in Civil and Environmental Engineering at Stanford University.At Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Dr. Gadgil is part of a group of researchers conducting experimental and modeling research in indoor Airflow & Pollutant Transport. He has authored or co-authored more than 85 papers in refereed archival journals and more than 100 conference papers.

Title: Professor

Website: https://eta.lbl.gov/people/ashok-gadgil

Email: gadgil@ce.berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 486 - 4651

Address: University of California, Berkeley 621C Sutardja Dai Hall Berkeley, Ca 94720 - 1764

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-ashok-gadgil/

Personal Website Text Short: Ashok Gadgil | Energy Technologies Area Skip to main content Energy Technologies Area Intranet Research Themes + Energy Technologies Area (ETA) researchers are continually building on the strong scientific foundation we have developed over the past 50 years.  We address the world’s most pressing climate challenges by bringing to market energy-efficient innovations across the buildings, transportation, and industrial sectors. ETA is at the forefront of developing better batteries for electric vehicles; improving the country's aging electrical grid and innovating distributed energy and storage solutions; developing grid-interactive, efficient buildings; and providing the most comprehensive market and data analysis worldwide for renewable technologies like wind and solar. Tackling the Climate Crisis Decarbonizing via Integrated Energy Systems Storage: The Key to Climate Solutions Advancing Water-Energy Systems A Just and Equitable Energy Transition Prioritizing Energy Efficiency Innovation Economy Strategic Initiatives + The Energy Technologies Area (ETA) Strategic Plan is the guiding force for our research and development for the next ten years. It clearly charts a path toward clean-energy solutions and focuses on five detailed Strategic Initiatives. The Plan provides an in-depth look at how ETA is accelerating research to provide affordable, clean energy to all while accomplishing deep, economy-wide decarbonization, looking to avoid a rise in global average temperature while simultaneously developing solutions to increase humanity's resilience to extreme weather volatility. Resilience Energy Storage Integrated Energy Systems Water–Energy Nexus Science for Manufacturing Publications News + For media inquiries, please contact ETA Interim Communications Manager Kiran Julin [email protected] Multimedia + Video & Animation Our Websites Social Media Media Outreach Join Our Mailing LIst About Us + The Energy Technologies Area (ETA) is unique in translating fundamental scientific discoveries into scalable technology adoption. Our approach combines an understanding of the marketplace and the role of state and federal regulation and policies. ETA's research drives real-world, practical results that affect and improve the everyday lives of Americans and those across the globe. Saving energy and battling the Climate Crisis are key to the foundation of our research, which is driven by technoeconomic analysis and in-lab experimentation and discovery. About Us + Diversity Staff ETA Safety Mentoring Software Tools Divisions + Building Technology & Urban Systems Energy Analysis & Environmental Impacts Energy Storage & Distributed Resources Search Ashok Gadgil Ashok Gadgil Affiliate 510-486-4651 [email protected] energy.lbl.gov/staff/gadgil/AGadgil.html Download Portrait Photo Bio Dr. Gadgil is a retired Senior Faculty Scientist, and formerly the co-lead for the Water-Energy initiative for the Energy Technologies Area at LBNL. He has a Ph.D. in physics from University of California, Berkeley. His expertise ranges from computational fluid dynamics of indoor air and pollutant flows, simulation of entry and transport of indoor radon, building energy efficiency, and methods to treat drinking water to make it potable. He has more than 135 refereed archival journal papers, 120 conference papers, and several patents. His work has won national and international recognition with several prestigious honors and awards. He held a concurrent appointment on the UC Berkeley Campus as Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering. Areas of expertise: Computational Fluid Dynamics of indoor air and pollutant transport Simulation methods for complex non-linear systems Energy efficiency in buildings Drinking water treatment Awards 2023 R&D 100 Award: R&D Leader of the Year - August 29th 2023 Ashok Gadgil receives the R&D Leader of the Year Award for his more than 30 years of dedication to creating technological innovations for safe drinking water, clean air, sustainable energy, and reduced child mortality. His work has benefited the health and dignity of low-resource communities throughout the years. In addition to his innovative work, he has worked tirelessly to implement his solutions nationally and internationally. Throughout his career, he has mentored numerous students, directed a national laboratory research division, led a binational clean water-energy technology research organization, directed a university development impact lab, and developed and taught courses at UC Berkeley. newscenter.lbl.gov/2023/08/23/rd-100-awards-honor-berkeley-lab-innovations 2022 Zuckerberg Water Prize - April 15th 2022 Professor Ashok Gadgil is the recipient of the inaugural Zuckerberg Water Prize for 2022. The award committee cites his outstanding leadership, vision, innovation, and lasting global impact in the field of water. The prize is established by Roy Zuckerberg, Senior Director of Goldman Sachs. More about the prize: www.watersummitziwr.com/zuckerbergwaterprize Honorable Mention: 2020 Patents for Humanity - November 3rd 2020 The Warming Indicator, a phase-change material temperature indicator that improves the Infant Warmer's functionality and safety, was recently recognized with an honorable mention in the 2020 Patents for Humanity awards. The Infant Warmer is a low-cost, convenient, re-usable, and non-electric wrap-around pad that maintains a temperature of 37 degrees Celsius (98.6 degrees Fahrenheit, the average human core temperature) for approximately six hours for a newborn infant. Both technologies are being licensed to a non-profit for scale up in Africa. Related Links: Ashok Gadgil Vi Rapp Patents for Humanity Award Winners 2016 R&D 100 Award: Sustainable and Affordable Fluoride Removal (SAFR) - November 9th 2016 A team led by Ashok Gadgil developed Sustainable and Affordable Fluoride Removal (SAFR), which uses mildly processed bauxite, an aluminum-rich ore available ubiquitously worldwide, as an adsorbent for remediating field-relevant fluoride concentrations in groundwater to reach the 1.5 milligrams-per-liter limit established by the World Health Organization as safe for drinking. Because SAFR eliminates the costly and wasteful processing involved in refining bauxite into higher-end products for fluoride removal, it is a more sustainable method that also has lower energy costs and lower carbon emissions. R&D Magazine’s annual R&D 100 Awards recognize the top 100 technology products from industry, academia, and government-sponsored research. For more information on the awards, see the links below. Related Links: Berkeley Lab Takes Home Five R&D 100 Awards for Environmental, Battery, and X-ray Technologies R&D Magazine's 2016 R&D 100 Awards 2016 R&D 100 Award for Sustainable and Affordable Fluoride Removal (SAFR) Leo Szilard Lectureship Award by the American Physical Society - January 1st 2015 Award recognizes application of physics for the benefit of humanity. Citation states "For applying physics to a variety of social problems and developing sustainable energy, evnironmental and public health technologies, as well as demostrating how these could be scaled up, thus contributing to improved life for millions." 2015 American  Physical Society Szilard Award - October 8th 2014 The American Physical Society has awarded Ashok Gadgil the 2015 Leo Szilard Lectureship Award. Gadgil is the Director of the Environmental Energy Technologies Division (EETD) of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (Berkeley Lab), and the Andrew and Virginia Rudd Family Foundation Distinguished Chair of Safe Water and Sanitation, Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering at the University of California, Berkeley. The award citation reads: “For applying physics to a variety of social problems and developing sustainable energy, environmental and public health technologies, as well as demonstrating how these could be scaled up, thus contributing to improved life for millions.” The Society established the Award to recognize outstanding accomplishments by physicists in promoting the use of physics for the benefit of society in such areas as the environment, arms control, and science policy. It was established in 1974 by the APS’s Forum on Physics and Society as a memorial to Leo Szilard in recognition of his concern for the social consequences of science. The award was later expanded to a lectureship format to promote awareness of the application of physics to social problems and to increase the visibility of those engaged in such activities. Related Links: American Physical Society's Szilard award page University of California Berkeley International House Alumnus of the Year - April 4th 2014 International House at UC Berkeley—one of the largest multi-national residential and programming cultural centers in the world—will honor philanthropist Wendy Schmidt and inventor Dr. Ashok Gadgil as Alumni of the Year 2014 at a gala celebration Thursday, April 10th, in its historic east bay facility. Related Links: UC Berkeley International House media advisory National Inventors Hall of Fame - March 4th 2014 The National Inventors Hall of Fame (NIHF), in partnership with the U.S. Department of Commerce’s United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) has named EETD Division Director Ashok Gadgil a member of its 2014 Class of Inductees. The NIHF Inductee list includes inventors who have made extraordinary contributions to their respective fields, and in many cases, changed the world forever. Gadgil was cited for "Innovative solutions for providing clean water in the world’s developing nations,"— the citation refers to the UV Waterworks device, and inexpensive device to disinfect drinking water. Related Links: About Ashok Gadgil's National Inventors Hall of Fame Induction WaterHealth International 2013 Tech Award - November 15th 2013 The Darfur Stoves Project, now managed by the non-profit organization Potential Energy, originated as an effort at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory to develop fuel-efficient stoves. These stoves reduced the need for women in the Darfur camps to forage for wood, where they were exposed to violence. Learn more at the link below. The project’s efforts are now expanding to other regions. The Tech Awards are presented by the Tech Museum of Innovation, Santa Clara California. These awards honor laureates from around the world for their efforts to use technology to benefit humanity. Tech Awards laureates are individuals, non-profit organizations and for-profit companies. The technology they use is either a new invention or an innovative use of an existing technology. Related Links: 2013 Tech Awards Tech Museum's video on the Darfur Stove Potential Energy Election to Membership, National Academy of Engineering - February 25th 2013 "For engineering solutions to the problems of potable water and energy in underdeveloped nations." National Academy of Engineering citation 5th Prince Sultan Bin Abdulaziz International Prize for Water, Creativity Prize - October 8th 2012 The award citation noted that Gadgil received his recognition for “research [relating to] one of the greatest problems currently facing the water supply: the arsenic contamination of groundwater.” The citation continues: “The Creativity Prize is being awarded to Dr. Ashok Gadgil’s team at UC Berkley for developing an economical and effective way to treat arsenic contamination and restore the groundwater supply to potability for millions of poor people around the globe. Together, these achievements promise to save countless lives.” Affiliations: Susan Addy and Case van Genuchten, UC Berkeley; Professor Joyashree Roy from Jadavpur University in Kolkata, India; and Ashok Gadgil and Robert Kostecki from EETD/Berkeley Lab. Related Links: The Prince Sultan prize announcement 2012 Lemelson-MIT Award for Global Innovation - May 2nd 2012 The Lemelson-MIT Program awarded Ashok Gadgil the 2012 $100,000 Lemelson-MIT Award for Global Innovation in recognition of his steady pursuit to blend research, invention, and humanitarianism for broad social impact. Gadgil is the Director of the Environmental Energy Technologies Division of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (Berkeley Lab), and a professor of civil and environmental engineering at the University of California, Berkeley. Related Links: 2012 Lemelson-MIT Award for Global Innovation Lemelson-MIT Program Lifetime Achievement Award of the Zayed Future Energy Prize - January 17th 2012 For his pioneering efforts in the U.S. in the field of sustainable invention, including development of such inventions as the Darfur stove and other fuel-efficient cookstoves, and the UV Waterworks for energy-efficiently disinfecting drinking water. Related Links: 2012 Zayed Future Energy Prize winners Zayed Future Energy Prize European Inventor Award 2011: Non-European Countries - May 19th 2011 For UV Waterworks, an innovative portable water purification device based on ultraviolet light. Related Links: European Inventor Award web site Olympus Innovation Award - March 28th 2011 The Olympus Lifetime of Educational Innovation Award recognizes "faculty members who have demonstrated a sustained contribution throughout their careers to stimulating and inspiring innovative thinking in students in their own universities and throughout academia." Related Links: Olympus Lifetime of Educational Innovation Award 2011 Olympus Innovation Award to Ashok Gadgil Sustainability Pioneer Award, Sustainability Asset Management Group - January 25th 2010 This award "acknowledges an outstanding individual working within or in close cooperation with the private sector, whose innovativeness represents a milestone in the promotion and implementation of sustainability principles in the business world." Heinz Awards - September 15th 2009 For his work as a researcher, inventor and humanitarian. Related Links: Berkeley Lab’s Ashok Gadgil Wins Heinz Award Heinz Awards web site United Nations Association—USA (East Bay) Global Citizen Award - October 22nd 2007 For work in developing a low-cost method of purifying water, and especially for individual efforts to ensure that his invention is in place and functioning to provide potable water to those in need, thereby saving lives and improving the quality of life of the beneficiaries. <em>Popular Mechanics</em> Magazine Breakthrough Award - October 1st 2007 For the Berkeley Darfur Stove. Related Links: Popular Mechanics: Efficient Cookstove Saves Refugee Lives in Sudan's Darfur Region Chancellor's Awards for Public Service 2006/07 - April 20th 2007 Ashok Gadgil has received the Faculty Service-Learning Leadership Award of the Chancellor's Awards for Public Service 2006/07, from the University of California, Berkeley. Modern-Day Leonardo - May 12th 2006 In conjunction with the Chicago Museum of Science and Industry's tribute to Leonardo da Vinci and his inventions. Related Links: Another Gadgil Honor: 'Modern-Day Leonardo' Public Works Magazine's Trendsetter - November 15th 2005 Public Works magazine has named EETD scientist Ashok Gadgil as one of its 2005 Trendsetters in its November cover story. "The 2005 Trendsetters list, which recognizes the most influential, high impact leaders in the public works community, includes those who have defined policy, brought their community or an issue into the spotlight, or set the standard within the industry." Gadgil was cited for his work to develop inexpensive methods to make drinking water safer in developing countries (UV Waterworks to kill pathogens, and ARUBA, a chemical medium for removing arsenic). Tech Museum Award - November 10th 2004 The Tech Museum of Innovation, located in San Jose, honors "those who leverage new and existing technologies to benefit humanity." Related Links: 2004 Tech Award winners Federal Laboratory Consortium Award for Excellence in Technology Transfer - May 5th 2004 For the entry "Minimizing Casualties from a Chem/Bio Attack: Preparation, Training, and Response Resources." World Technology Network Individual Category for Energy Award - November 11th 2002 Related Links: The 2002 World Technology Summit and Awards American Physical Society, Fellowship Award - June 17th 2001 For outstanding work modeling air and pollutant transport inside buildings, analyzing energy issues in developing countries, and developing "UV" Waterworks for inexpensively disinfecting drinking water in such countries. Federal Laboratory Consortium Award, Excellence in Technology Transfer - January 10th 2000 For Transferring the UV Waterworks to the Commercial Sector. Discover Magazine Award for Technological Innovation (In the environment category) - June 10th 1996 For UV Waterworks, an ultraviolet-based water purification system. Best of What's New Award, Popular Science Magazine - May 14th 1996 For UV Waterworks, an ultraviolet-based water purification system. PEW Charitable Trust Award - October 14th 1991 For work promoting energy efficiency in developing countries. Journal and Editorial Board Memberships Annual Reviews of Environment and Resources, Co-editor in Chief Development Engineering, Co-Editor in Chief Publications 2021 Adapting a drinking water treatment technology for arsenic removal to the context of a small, low-income California community Authors: Glade, Sara ; Siva R.S. Bandaru ; Mohit Nahata ; Jay Majmudar , and Ashok J. Gadgil . 10/2021 Predicting childhood lead exposure at an aggregated level using machine learning Authors: Lobo, G.P. ; B. Kalyan , and Ashok J. Gadgil . 10/2021 Electrochemical deposition of amorphous aluminum oxides on lead pipes to prevent lead leaching into the drinking water Authors: Lobo, G.P. ; B. Kalyan , and Ashok J. Gadgil . 09/2021 Superior removal of As(III) and As(V) from water with Mn-doped β-FeOOH nanospindles on carbon foam Authors: Yan, Bing ; Tian Liang ; Xiaohui Yang , and Ashok J. Gadgil . 09/2021 Identifying schools at high-risk for elevated lead in drinking water using only publicly available data Authors: Lobo, G.P. ; Johanna Laraway , and Ashok J. Gadgil . 08/2021 Preventing leaching from lead water pipes with electrochemistry: an exploratory study Authors: Lobo, G.P. , and Ashok J. Gadgil . 05/2021 Safety and effectiveness of a non-electric infant warmer for hypothermia in Rwanda: A cluster-randomized stepped-wedge trial Authors: Uwamariya, Josee ; Christian Mazimpaka ; Leana May ; Alphonse Nshimyiryo ; Henry A. Feldman ; Felix Sayinzoga ; Sharon Umutesi ; Ashok J. Gadgil ; Vi H. Rapp ; Evrard Nahimana , and Anne Hansen . 04/2021 2020 The polymeric conformational effect on capacitive deionization performance of graphene oxide/polypyrrole composite electrode Authors: Xu, Ke ; Yanhui Liu ; Zihan An ; Ashok J. Gadgil ; Guorong Xu , and Guoling Ruan . 07/2020 Rapid and Efficient Arsenic Removal by Iron Electrocoagulation Enabled with in Situ Generation of Hydrogen Peroxide Authors: Bandaru, Siva R.S. ; Case M. van Genuchten ; Arkadeep Kumar ; Sara Glade ; Dana Hernandez ; Mohit Nahata , and Ashok J. Gadgil . 04/2020 Practical design considerations for secondary air injection in wood-burning cookstoves: An experimental study Authors: Caubel, Julien J. ; Vi H. Rapp ; Sharon S. Chen , and Ashok J. Gadgil . 01/2020 2019 Toward Greener and More Sustainable Manufacture of Bauxite-Derived Adsorbents for Water Defluoridation Authors: Pan, Shu-Yuan ; Andrew Z. Haddad , and Ashok J. Gadgil . 10/2019 R&D and Implementation Outcomes From The U.S.-India Bilateral Center For Building Energy Research And Development Program Authors: Singh, Reshma ; Mary Ann Piette ; Ashok J. Gadgil ; Rajan Rawal ; Narendra Bansal ; Vishal Garg ; Jyotirmay Mathur ; Philip Haves ; Paul A. Mathew ; Christian Kohler ; Mahabir Bhandari ; Gail Brager ; Vivian Loftness ; Narendran Nadarajah ; Ronnen M. Levinson ; Richard E. Brown ; Andre Desjarlais ; Milind Rane ; Sanyogita Manu ; Yash Shukla , and Mona Doctor-Pingel . 08/2019 On the Conversion of Bauxite Ores to Highly Activated Alumina Media for W

