Name: Brandie Nonnecke

Description: Brandie Nonnecke is founding director of theCITRIS Policy Lab, headquartered at UC Berkeley. She is an associate research professor at the UC BerkeleyGoldman School of Public Policy(GSPP), where she directs theTech Policy Initiative, a collaboration between CITRIS and GSPP to strengthen tech policy education, research and impact. Nonnecke is also the director ofOur Better Web, a program that supports empirical research, policy analysis, training and engagement to address the sharp rise of online harms. She is a co-director of theBerkeley Center for Law and Technologyat Berkeley Law where she leads theProject on Artificial Intelligence, Platforms, and Society. She also co-directs the UC Berkeley AI Policy Hub, an interdisciplinary initiative training researchers to develop effective AI governance and policy frameworks.She is the host ofTecHype, a video and audio series that debunks misunderstandings around emerging technologies and explores effective technical and policy strategies to harness emerging technologies for good.Nonnecke served as a technology and human rights fellow at theCarr Center for Human Rights Policyat the Harvard Kennedy School. She also completed fellowships at theSchmidt Futures International Strategy Forum,Aspen Institute’s Tech Policy Huband theWorld Economic Forum. She holds a Ph.D. in mass communications from the Pennsylvania State University.Her research has been published in Science, Wired, Telecommunications Policy, and the Journal of Information Technology and Politics, among other outlets. Her work has been cited by the Federal Trade Commission, the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), and the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, as well as The Washington Post, BBC and NPR, among other venues. She was named one of the100 Brilliant Women in AI Ethics in 2021.

Title: Director of the CITRIS Policy Lab

Website: http://nonnecke.com

Email: nonnecke@citris-uc.org

Phone: nan

Address: nan

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/brandie-nonnecke/

Personal Website Text Short: Brandie M. Nonnecke, PhD – Director, CITRIS Policy Lab; Associate Research Professor at the Goldman School of Public Policy, UC Berkeley; Host of TecHype Skip to content Menu Home About CV Bio & Headshot Speaking Research & Publications Publications Tech Dev Twitter BNonnecke Medium CITRIS Policy Lab GitHub Brandie M. Nonnecke, PhD Director, CITRIS Policy Lab; Associate Research Professor at the Goldman School of Public Policy, UC Berkeley; Host of TecHype About Brandie Nonnecke, PhD is Founding Director of the CITRIS Policy Lab , headquartered at UC Berkeley. She is an Associate Research Professor at the Goldman School of Public Policy ( GSPP ) where she directs the Tech Policy Initiative , a collaboration between CITRIS and GSPP to strengthen tech policy education, research, and impact. Brandie is the Director of Our Better Web , a program that supports empirical research, policy analysis, training, and engagement to address the rise of online harms. She is a co-director of the Berkeley Center for Law and Technology at Berkeley Law where she leads the Project on Artificial Intelligence, Platforms, and Society . She also co-directs the UC Berkeley AI Policy Hub ,  an interdisciplinary initiative training researchers to develop effective AI governance and policy frameworks. Brandie is the host of TecHype , a groundbreaking video and podcast series that cuts through the hype around emerging technologies to get to what matters. Each episode debunks misunderstandings around emerging tech, provides insight into the real benefits and risks, and identifies technical and policy strategies to harness emerging tech for good. Check out TecHype Episodes Brandie served as a Technology and Human Rights Fellow at the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at the Harvard Kennedy School. She also completed fellowships at the Schmidt Futures International Strategy Forum , Aspen Institute’s Tech Policy Hub , and the World Economic Forum . Her research has been published in Science, Wired, Telecommunications Policy, the Journal of Information Technology and Politics, among other outlets. Her work has been cited by the FTC, NIST, the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, as well as in the Washington Post, BBC, NPR, among other venues. Brandie was named one of the 100 Brilliant Women in AI Ethics in 2021 . Brandie has expertise in information and communication technology (ICT) law, policy, and governance.  Her current work primarily focusing on responsible AI and platform governance. She has published research on compelled platform data transparency for research and oversight , computational propaganda tactics targeting contentious political issues before an election ; algorithmic-based decision-making for public service provision in the urban context ; how AI can enhance and augment human labor, especially for aging populations and individuals with disabilities ; and outlined recommendations for how to better ensure applications of AI support equity and fairness . She also investigates how information and communication technologies (ICTs) can support civic participation, improve governance and accountability, and foster economic and social development. In this capacity, she designs and deploys participatory evaluation platforms that utilize statistical models and collaborative filtering to tap into collective intelligence and reveal novel insights, including the California Report Card launched in collaboration with the Office of California Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom and the DevCAFE system launched in Mexico, Uganda, and the Philippines to enable participatory evaluation of the effectiveness of development interventions. Her research on the impacts of collaborative filtering for development evaluation received the 2015 IEEE Global Humanitarian Tech Best Paper Award and was featured in the Stanford Social Innovation Review . Brandie completed a postdoc at UC Berkeley under the supervision of Dr. Camille Crittenden and Prof. Ken Goldberg. She received her PhD in Mass Communications from the College of Communications at Penn State where she also served as Research Fellow for the Institute for Information Policy . Her dissertation research investigated the role of the East Africa Internet Governance Forum in influencing ICT policy harmonization within the East African Community (published in Telecommunications Policy ). She holds an MS degree in Journalism and Mass Communication with a minor in Technology and Social Change from Iowa State University . Follow me on Twitter My Tweets Blog at WordPress.com. Subscribe Subscribed Brandie M. Nonnecke, PhD Sign me up Already have a WordPress.com account? Log in now. Brandie M. Nonnecke, PhD Customize Subscribe Subscribed Sign up Log in Copy shortlink Report this content View post in Reader Manage subscriptions Collapse this bar Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email Name Website

