Name: Brian Barsky

Description: Brian A. Barsky is Professor of Computer Science and Affiliate Professor of Optometry and Vision Science at UC Berkeley. He attended McGill University, Montréal, received a D.C.S. in engineering and a B.Sc. in mathematics and computer science. He studied computer graphics and computer science at Cornell University, Ithaca, where he earned an M.S. degree. His Ph.D. degree is in computer science from the University of Utah, Salt Lake City. He is a Fellow of the American Academy of Optometry. His research interests include computer aided geometric design and modeling, interactive three-dimensional computer graphics, visualization in scientific computing, computer aided cornea modeling and visualization, medical imaging, and virtual environments for surgical simulation.

Title: Professor

Website: https://www2.eecs.berkeley.edu/Faculty/Homepages/barsky.html

Email: barsky@cs.berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 642-9838

Address: University of California, Berkeley 785 Soda Hall Berkeley, Ca 94720-1776

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-brian-barsky/

Personal Website Text Short: Brian A. Barsky | EECS at UC Berkeley Skip to Content Expand Search Form Collapse Search Form Expand Main Menu Collapse Main Menu Search for: Search For Students For Faculty/Staff Industry News Events Give Search for: Search About About Expand Submenu About About Overview History Expand Submenu The First Women of EECS Joseph Thomas Gier Diversity Expand Submenu Hear From Women in EECS Broadening Participation in EECS Visiting By the Numbers Special Events Expand Submenu 2022-23 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 The Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) at UC Berkeley offers one of the strongest research and instructional programs in this field anywhere in the world. Blog Academics Academics Expand Submenu Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Admissions & Programs Expand Submenu CS Major EECS Major EECS/CS Program Comparison Chart Second Bachelor's Degree Summer Research Cal Day Graduate Admissions & Programs Expand Submenu Grad Admissions FAQ Industry-Oriented Programs Research-Oriented Programs Fellowships Adding the EECS/CS M.S. From Another Department Recommended Coursework For Current Students Expand Submenu ed | EECS 101 Courses Expand Submenu EE Courses CS Courses Unlike many institutions of similar stature, regular EE and CS faculty teach the vast majority of our courses, and the most exceptional teachers are often also the most exceptional researchers. View Courses Research Research Expand Submenu Research Research Overview Areas Centers & Labs Colloquium Expand Submenu Archive BEARS Symposium Expand Submenu Archive Technical Reports Ph.D. Dissertations Research is the foundation of Berkeley EECS. Faculty, students, and staff work together on cutting-edge projects that cross disciplinary boundaries to improve everyday life and make a difference. EECS Research People People Expand Submenu People People Overview Directory Leadership Faculty Expand Submenu In Memoriam Students Expand Submenu Student Awards Student Organizations Staff Expand Submenu Student Affairs Faculty  Support Course Support Facilities and Engineering Services Financial Services HR IT Support Industrial & Public Relations Alumni Expand Submenu EE Distinguished Alumni CS Distinguished Alumni EECS faculty, students, staff, and alumni are central to our success as one of the most thriving and distinguished departments on the Berkeley campus. Latest News Connect Connect Expand Submenu Connect Connect Overview Support EECS Expand Submenu EECS Excellence Fund Memorial Funds K-12 Outreach Student Affairs Faculty Positions Staff Positions Contact Expand Submenu In an Emergency Consider reaching out for a conversation, attending a department seminar or conference, viewing a lecture on any one of our public channels, or supporting us via a gift to the university. You can help strengthen our dedication to education and outreach, solidify close ties to industry, and nourish a supportive and inclusive culture. Contact us Home / People / Faculty / Brian A. Barsky Brian A. Barsky Research Areas Graphics (GR) Biosystems & Computational Biology (BIO) Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) Signal Processing (SP) computer-aided geometric design & modeling visualization in scientific computing, computer-aided cornea modeling and visualization, computational optometry Research Centers Arts Research Center (ARC) Berkeley Center for New Media (BCNM) Berkeley Institute of Design (BID) Center for Information Technology Research in the Interest of Society - The Banatao Institute (CITRIS) Computer Graphics at Berkeley (B-CAM) Teaching Schedule Spring 2024 CS 198-57. Directed Group Studies for Advanced Undergraduates , Mo 14:00-15:59, Soda 438 CS 298-57. Assistive Technology , Mo 14:00-15:59, Soda 438 Biography Brian A. Barsky is Professor of the Graduate School at the University of California, Berkeley with faculty affiliations in Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS), Optometry, Vision Science, Bioengineering, Berkeley Institute of Design (BID), Berkeley Center for New Media (BCNM), Arts Research Center (ARC), and Berkeley Canadian Studies Program. He is a Fellow of the American Academy of Optometry (F.A.A.O.), a UC Berkeley Presidential Chair Fellow, a Warren and Marjorie Minner Faculty Fellow in Engineering Ethics and Professional/Social Responsibility, and an ACM Distinguished Speaker. Dr. Barsky was a recipient of an IBM Faculty Development Award and a National Science Foundation Presidential Young Investigator Award. He attended McGill University, Montréal, received a D.C.S. in engineering and a B.Sc. in mathematics and computer science. He studied computer graphics and computer science at Cornell University, Ithaca, where he earned an M.S. degree. His Ph.D.  is in computer science from the University of Utah, Salt Lake City. His research interests include computational aesthetics, computational photography, methods for the design and fabrication of contact lenses, computer methods for optometry and ophthalmology, image synthesis, spline curve/surface representations, computer aided geometric design and modeling, CAD/CAM/CIM, interactive and realistic three-dimensional computer graphics, visualization in scientific computing, computer aided cornea modeling and visualization, videokeratography techniques, corneal topographic mapping, medical imaging, virtual environments for surgical simulation, and display technology. He developed Vision-Realistic Rendering using three-dimensional rendering techniques for the computer generation of synthetic images to simulate the vision of specific individuals based on measuring the wavefront aberrations of their eyes. This led to developing a vision-correcting display to enable specific viewer to see it in sharp focus directly without using any corrective eyewear such as eyeglasses or contact lenses. This was selected by Scientific American as one of 2014's ten "World Changing Ideas." Education 1981, Ph.D., Computer Science, University of Utah, Salt Lake City 1978, M.S., Computer Graphics/Computer Science, Cornell University 1976, B.Sc., Mathematics/Computer Science, McGill University 1973, D.C.S., Engineering, McGill University Selected Publications Z. Cui, H. Ren, S. Wang, and B. A. Barsky, "Improved Pre-Filtering for Vision Correcting Display Using Wave Propagation Model," University of California, Berkeley, June 2019. B. A. Barsky, "Simulating Human Vision and Vision Correcting Displays," presented at Third International Conference on Graphics and Signal Processing (ICGSP 2019), Hong Kong, June 2019. B. A. Barsky, "Computational Models for Human Optics," presented at International Symposium on Electronic Imaging 2019, Jan. 2019. B. A. Barsky, "From Vision-Realistic Rendering to Vision Correcting Displays," presented at ETAI 2018, Struga, Macedonia, Sep. 2018. B. A. Barsky, "Computational Optometry and Ophthalmology," presented at Fifth International Conference on Signal Processing and Integrated Networks, Delhi, India, Feb. 2018. B. A. Barsky, "Rendering  Depth of Field," in Entertainment Technology (ET) Summit , 2017. J. Kim, X. Zhang, L. Waller, B. A. Barsky, and R. Ng, "Free Your Eyes: Retinal Image Deblurring Display with Enlarged Viewing Zone," in International Conference on Computational Photography , May 2016. B. A. Barsky, "Prescription Programmable Eyeglasses," presented at The Future in Focus 2015, Las Vegas, Sep. 2015. B. A. Barsky, "An Overview of Vision Realistic Rendering and Vision Correcting Displays," in The Society for Information Display, Display Week , 2015. B. A. Barsky, "Computational Photography: Going Forward from an Historical Perspective," presented at International Conference on Computational Photography 2015, Houston, April 2015. B. A. Barsky, F. Huang, L. Douglas, G. Wetzstein, and R. Raskar, "Vision Correcting Displays Based on Inverse Blurring and Aberration Compensation," T. Tuytelaars, B. Schiel, T. Pajdla, and D. Fleet, Eds., 2014. B. A. Barsky, "Vision Correcting Display with Aberration Compensation using Inverse Blurring and a Light Field Display," U.S. Patent 035,966. Aug. 2014. F. Huang, G. Wetzstein, B. A. Barsky, and R. Raskar, " Eyeglasses-free Display: Towards Correcting Visual Aberrations with Computational Light Field Displays ," ACM Trans. Graph. (Proc. SIGGRAPH) , vol. 33, no. 4, pp. 1-12, July 2014. F. Huang and B. A. Barsky, "Computational Approaches to Aberration Compensation for Vision Correcting Displays," in Display Week 2014 , 2014. C. Yeh, Y. Ho, B. A. Barsky, and M. Ouhyoung, "Personalized Photograph Ranking and Selection System Considering Positive and Negative User Feedback," ACM Transactions on Multimedia Computing, Communications and Applications , vol. 10, no. 4, June 2014. F. Huang, G. Wetzstein, B. A. Barsky, and R. Raskar, "Computational Light Field Display for Correcting Visual Aberrations," ACM SIGGRAPH 2013 (poster) , July 2013. F. Huang, D. Lanman, B. A. Barsky, and R. Raskar, "Correcting for Optical Aberrations using Multilayer Displays," ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG) , vol. 31, no. 6, Nov. 2012. B. A. Barsky, "Vision-Realistic Rendering: Simulation of the Scanned Foveal Image with Elimination of Artifacts due to Occlusion and Discretization," in Computer Vision, Imaging and Computer Graphics: Theory and Applications , P. Richard and J. Braz, Eds., Communications in Computer and Information Science, Vol. 229, Springer-Verlag, 2011, pp. 3-27. C. Yeh, Y. Ho, B. A. Barsky, and M. Ouhyoung, "Personalized Photograph Ranking and Selection System," in ACM Multimedia 2010 , 2010, pp. 211-220. T. J. Kosloff and B. A. Barsky, "Two New Approaches to Depth of Field Post-Processing: Pyramid Spreading and Tensor Filtering," in VISIGRAPP (International Joint Conference on Computer Vision, Imaging and Computer Graphics Theory and Applications) , 2010, pp. IS-9 to IS-18. Awards, Memberships and Fellowships IBM Faculty Award ,
                                                                                2019 ACM Distinguished Speaker,
                                                                                2019 Warren and Marjorie Minner Faculty Fellow in Engineering Ethics and Professional/Social Responsibility,
                                                                                2013 Berkeley Center for Teaching & Learning Presidential Chair Fellow ,
                                                                                2012 Berkeley Center for Teaching & Learning Presidential Chair Fellow ,
                                                                                2008 Fellow of the American Academy of Optometry,
                                                                                1997 William Evans Fellowship,
                                                                                1988 NSF Presidential Young Investigator (PYI) ,
                                                                                1985 Fulbright Scholar ,
                                                                                1985 Photo Larger Photo Links Personal Homepage Publications Dissertations Contact Information 443 Soda Hall barsky@berkeley.edu Office Hours By email appointment only Research Support Monica Naputi mnaputi@berkeley.edu About History Diversity Visiting Special Events People Directory Leadership Faculty Staff Students Alumni Connect Support Us K-12 Outreach Faculty Positions Staff Positions Contact Academics Undergrad Admissions & Programs Graduate Admissions & Programs Courses Prospective Women Students Current Students Resources Room Reservations My EECS Info For Students For Grads For Undergrads For ASEs IT Services Facilities/Safety For Faculty/Staff Visiting Scholars Research Areas Centers & Labs Projects Technical Reports PhD Dissertations Joint Colloquium BEARS Symposium Industry Recruit Students Corporate Access Learn more about the Campaign for Berkeley and Graduate Fellowships. Give to EECS Berkeley EECS on Twitter Berkeley EECS on Instagram Berkeley EECS on LinkedIn Berkeley EECS on YouTube EE CS UC Berkeley Berkeley Engineering CDSS Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy Contact © 2023 UC Regents

