Name: Bryan Jenkins

Description: Finding means to improve the conversion and expand the beneficial use of biomass fuels constitutes the primary research effort for the Biomass Laboratory. Much of the current biomass conversion research is targeted at understanding the role of inorganic materials found in biomass during thermal conversion to heat and power via combustion and gasification. Boilers burning biomass are subject to fouling and corrosion from alkali metals, chlorine, and other constituents of biomass released during combustion. These phenomena contribute to lower system efficiency, reduced availability, and higher costs. They are also critical inhibitors to the wider use of agricultural residues, such as straw, in existing and advanced power generation systems. Mitigating fouling and corrosion from such fuels would yield significant benefits in providing alternatives to open burning and higher cost cultural practices for straw management.One possibility is to reduce the input of undesirable constituents. Recent work has shown that alkali metals and chlorine are removed in large amounts from biomass via simple wet extraction, or leaching. Techniques to enable the large scale use of leached fuel in existing and future conversion facilities are under investigation. Other possibilities include modifying the operating conditions to reduce gas temperatures in critical areas of the boiler. Laboratory studies and full-scale experiments in operatingpower plants are currently under way. Many of these studies are joint with industry and national laboratories.Coupling biological conversion, such as fermentation or anaerobic digestion, with thermal conversion also provides a means to control the partitioning and fate of elements through the conversion process. Research exploring the thermal conversion of ligneous co-products from biological conversions is underway.Costs of using biomass are heavily dependent on the acquisition cost. Research is conducted on technologies to improve the harvest of agricultural residues for use not only as fuel, but for manufactured products as well. Currently under investigation are designs of improved acquisition systems for rice straw, including the development of GIS models to assess the potential optimization of the delivery system.Materials production from biomass and agricultural wastes has taken on more importance to help solve certain environmental problems. Sequential evaporation of drainage water through crops, trees, halophytes, and solar evaporators has been developed as a way to allow sustained farming in parts of the San Joaquin Valley of California. The process generates salt as the final product, and disposing of the salt in a practical manner is critical to the eventual success of such systems. Vitrification of salt to make commercial glass products is now being investigated. Included are studies of rice straw and other biomass as the source of silica.Research also includes investigations into the fundamental combustion behavior of biomass and the characterization of important fuel properties, small scale gasification systems for remote power applications, and energy utilization in controlled environments, such as greenhouses.

Title: Professor

Website: http://bae.engineering.ucdavis.edu/pages/faculty/jenkins.html

Email: bmjenkins@ucdavis.edu

Phone: (530) 752-1422

Address: University of California, Davis 2030 Bainer Hall One Shields Avenue Davis, CA 95616

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-bryan-jenkins/

Personal Website Text Short: Biological and Agricultural Engineering Skip to main content Menu Biological and Agricultural Engineering Open Search Search Quick Links + UC Davis CAES College of Engineering BFTV Cluster Directions and Contact Emergency Facilities WCAE Biotech and Biomaterials Ag. Robotics and Sensors Food Processing and Safety Environmental Sustainability COE Resources Intranet Main navigation (extended config) About About Us History Commitment to Diversity Directory Facilities Western Center for Agricultural Equipment Fish Conservation and Cultivation Laboratory Analytical Chemistry Lab BAE Fabrication Shop Agricultural Ergonomics Research Center Renewable Energy Anaerobic Digestor Student Computer Laboratory Resources Facilities Student Resources Outreach Forms BFTV Resource Calendar Opportunities for Employment Safety Culture of Safety New Personnel Keys Non-Emergency Injury Safety Coordinators Useful Links Contact Us Department Highlights Calendar of Events Undergraduate Prospective Students Who are Biological Systems Engineers? Where do Biological Systems Engineers Work? First-year Students International Students Transfer Students Second Bachelor's Students Changing Majors Majors, Minors, and Curriculum Agricultural and Environmental Technology Major Biological Systems Engineering Major Integrated Degree Program - BS+MS BAE Courses Accreditation Current Student Resources Registration & Enrollment How to Complete a Prerequisite Petition FAQ Forms & Petitions Tutoring Student Life Academic Clubs Awards and Competitions Society of Biological Engineers ASABE Student Branch Facilities and Technology Study Abroad Internships Undergraduate Advising AAET Advising EBSE Advising Annual Mandatory Advising Holds Minor Advising Advising Support Network Aggie Advising/Orientation Alumni Graduate Prospective Graduate Students Preparing to Apply Application Requirements Application FAQs Funding Newly Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Degree Requirements Doctoral Degrees and Designated Emphasis Master's Degree Integrated Bachelor's and Master's Degree PhD and MS Milestones GBSE Qualifying Examination Mentorship Funding a Degree Teaching Assistants and Readers Forms EBS Graduate Courses Graduate Students Student Life Graduate Student Association Career Information Graduate Faculty Become a GBSE Faculty Member Faculty & Research Biotechnical Engineering Agricultural and Natural Resources Engineering Food Engineering News Give Researchers Awarded ACE Grants to Lead Innovations for Climate Change Solutions Read More Undergraduate Learn more about the variety of resources for undergraduate students in Biological and Agricultural Engineering Learn more Graduate Graduate students work with world-renowned faculty and contribute to the field while pursuing a masters or docotorate degree Learn More Research and Outreach UC Davis Biological and Agricultural Engineering faculty perform a wide range of cutting-edge interdisciplinary research Learn More Commitment to Diversity The Department of Biological and Agricultural Engineering is committed to creating and maintaining an environment in which all have an opportunity to achieve their full potential.  The department promotes strategies to enrich the diversity of our students, staff, faculty and programs and embraces the UC Davis Principles of Community and the diversity policy expressed by the University of California Regents. Upcoming Events UC Davis Big Ideas SmartFarm and Sustainable Campus, Sustainable Cities Headed by BAE Faculty are also UC Davis Big Ideas Learn More Our Principles of Safety The Biological and Agricultural Engineering department is deeply committed to ensuring a safe working environment for everyone. When safety is prioritized and ingrained as a core value, everyone benefits. Being responsible and knowledgeable about safety can prevent many workplace injuries. The overall health and well-being of everyone who comes into our department is paramount and this means creating a safe environment for all. When it comes to being safe and staying safe, everyone is their own best advocate. It is everyone's right to be safe, and we take that very seriously. Visit our Safety Page Recent Articles UC Davis Researchers Awarded Aggie Climate Action for Equity (ACE) Grants to Lead Innovations for Climate Change Solutions April 01, 2024 International Women’s Day Spotlight on Vivian Vuong March 08, 2024 Annual Student Rally Connects Students to Local Research and Industry February 12, 2024 Research Sheds Light on Using Agriculture Residues for Fuels, Chemicals January 05, 2024 Cultivating sustainable systems: Stavros Vougioukas embraces ag tech challenges December 07, 2023 More News Subscribe to Recent Articles Facilities Mission Statement We are dedicated to the advancement of the discipline of biological engineering and to the conduct of research under its many diverse areas of application. Biological engineering or biological systems engineering is the biology-based engineering discipline that integrates life sciences with engineering in the advancement and application of fundamental concepts of biological systems from molecular to ecosystem levels. We discover, develop, apply, and disseminate knowledge for the sustainable production, management, and use of biological materials, and to educate students for this work. Department Highlights Apply Now Contact Us Ways to Give Questions or comments? Privacy & Accessibility Principles of Community University of California Sitemap Last update: May 13, 2024 Copyright © The Regents of the University of California, Davis campus. All rights reserved. This site is officially grown in SiteFarm .

