Name: Burkhard Militzer

Description: Burkhard Militzer was born 1970 in Dresden, Germany. He received a diploma in physics from the Humboldt University at Berlin in 1996, and Ph.D. from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 2000. After three years as post-doc at Lawrence Livermore National Lab, he worked for four years as associate staff member at the Geophysical Laboratory of Carnegie Institution of Washington. In 2007, he joined UC Berkeley.Specialty Areas: Mineral physics, Interiors of giant planets, planet formation, materials at high pressure, equation of state calculations, Quantum Monte Carlo, path integral Monte Carlo, density functional methodsResearch Projects: Studying Earth and Planetary Science problems using computer simulation techniques that were developed in condensed matter physics. Recent studies focused hydrogen-helium mixtures in Jupiter and whether this planet has a rocky core. The comparison of theory and experiment is very important, but with computer simulations one can study much higher pressures than are accessible in experiments, and that is needed to understand giant planet interiors.

Title: Associate Professor

Website: http://militzer.berkeley.edu/

Email: militzer@berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 6437414

Address: University of California, Berkeley 407 McCone Hall Berkeley, CA 94720

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/burkhard-militzer/

Personal Website Text Short: Burkhard Militzer at UC Berkeley Contact Information Burkhard Militzer Professor University of California, Berkeley Departments of Earth and Planetary Science and Astronomy Email militzer at berkeley dot edu Phone (510) 643-7414 Fax (510) 643-9980 (if you must) Address ( Map ) 411 McCone Hall, MC 4767 Berkeley, CA 94720, USA Publications Research projects Computer code Positions Slides Research Interests In my research, I use computer simulations
to understand the interior and evolution of giant planets . Materials
in planetary interiors are exposed to extreme temperature and pressure
conditions that cannot yet be reached with laboratory
experiments. Instead we rely on highly accurate first-principles computer simulations techniques .  With these methods,
we recently explained why neon is depleted in Jupiter's atmosphere and
provided strong, though indirect evidence for helium rain to occur in
giant planets. Our recent simulations predict core erosion to occur in gas giant planets. Furthermore I study materials in the
deep mantle of our planet and compare my results with static and
dynamic high pressure experiments. In some cases, computer simulations
provide new insight into properties of materials that cannot be
obtained with experiments. In
other cases we use them to make predictions for the state of matter at
these extreme pressures. Recent examples include fluid helium and water ice at megabar pressures. My background is in the field of
theoretical condensed matter physics and I am interested in theory and
simulation of novel materials under extreme conditions. I use a
variety of first-principles simulation methods including path integral Monte Carlo, groundstate
quantum Monte Carlo, and density functional molecular
dynamics . Research Group Felipe Gonzalez-Cataldo, assistant researcher. Victor Robinson, postdoctorial researcher. Jizhou Wu, PhD candidate. Tanja Kovajevic, PhD candidate. Kyla de Villa, PhD student. Formerly in my group at UCB: Rustin Domingos, PhD student. Anton Ermakov, postdoctorial researcher. Sean Wahl, postdoctorial researcher. Mark Olson, undergraduate student. Ryu Akiba, undergraduate student. Maximilian Böhme, graduate student visiting from Dresden, Germany. Shefali Bhatia, UCB undergraduate student. Henry Peterson, UCB undergraduate student. Kevin Driver , postdoctorial researcher, now staff scientists at LLNL. Francois Soubiran , postdoctorial researcher, now staff scientists at CEA in France. Shuai Zhang , PhD student, now staff scientists at LLE in Rochester, NY. Tanis Leonhardi, UCB graduate student. Hugh F. Wilson associate specialist, now at CSIRO in Melbourne. Stephen Stackhouse , now Lecturer at the University of Leeds. Saad Khairallah , now staff scientists at LLNL. Mike Wong, UCB undergraduate student, since graduated with PhD degree from Caltech. Benjamin Sherman, undergraduate student from CSUN visited in 2010 and 2011. Members of my research group at the Carnegie Institution of Science (2003-2007): Jan Vorberger, postdoctorial researcher, now staff scientist in HZDR in Rossendorf, Germany Ken Esler, postdoctoral researcher Rebekah Graham, Isaac Tamblyn, Seth Jacobsen (all REU summer students) Teaching In the fall of
2008, I introduced EPS 109 " Computer Simulations with Jupyter Notebooks " as a new course. An
introduction to computer simulation and data analysis methods is given and students
learn to write programs with Jupyter notebooks. Have a look the animations that the students made during
the 2008 , 2009 , 2011 , 2012 , 2013 , 2014 , 2015 , 2016 , 2018 , 2019 , 2020 , 2021 , 2022 , and 2023 classes.
      In spring of 2011, Dino Bellugi and I introduced the graduate class EPS 209 " Matlab Applications in Earth Science ". Here is a compilation of the final projects . I teach the course C12 "The Planets". A tour of the mysteries and inner workings of our solar
system is presented. The class has over 200 students and is directed
at nonscience majors. Here are some pictures
from our class room demonstrations in 2010 and 2012 . This course is also offered as
an online summer class W12 . Here are three examples from our series of
recorded lectures: a course introduction , 
one on the Kepler mission , and one
on meteorites . My experiences teaching online are described in an article for the EPS alumni report in 2010. Here are some pictures from my presentations at UC Berkeley's CalDay events in 2010 , 2013 , and 2019 . I also participated in a field trip to Yosemite National Park. Slides and videos from presentations at conferences and workshops B. Militzer, " Path Integral Monte Carlo Simulations of Warm Dense Matter ",
  lecture 1 at 60th Karpacz Winter School on Theorectical Physics, May 17, 2024, PDF file. B. Militzer, " Ab initio Simulations of Iron, NASA mission Juno to Jupiter & dilute core ",
  lecture 2 at 60th Karpacz Winter School on Theorectical Physics, May 18, 2024, PDF file. B. Militzer, " NASA mission Cassini to Saturn. How did that planet become the Lord of the Rings? ",
  lecture 3 at 60th Karpacz Winter School on Theorectical Physics, May 19, 2024, PDF file. B. Militzer, " Quadratic Monte Carlo to Understand Jupiter's Interior Structure and the Origin of Saturn's Ring ",
  seminar at Flatiron Institute, March 8, 2024, PPTX , PDF files. F. Gonzalez et al., " A model for ramp compression from ab initio calculations. ",
  22nd Biennial Conference of the APS Topical Group on Shock Compression of Condensed Matter (SHOCK22), July 14, 2022, PDF files. F. Gonzalez et al., " Quantum simulations at extreme conditions: warm dense matter and planetary interiors ",
  HEDS Seminar Series, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, December 1, 2022, PDF files. B. Militzer et al., " The Origin of Saturn's Obliquity and Young Rings ",
  AGU talk, December 2022, PPTX , PDF files. B. Militzer, " First-Principles Equation of State Database 
For Warm Dense Matter Computations ",
  LLNL-Japan seminar, April 2022, PPTX , PDF files. B. Militzer, " Tidal response and shape of hot Jupiters ",
  Bay Area Exoplanet Meeting, March 2022, PPTX , PDF files. B. Militzer, " The Interiors of Jupiter and Saturn ",
  Alphabet company, May 2021, video recording . F. Gonzalez et al., " First Principles Calculations of the Equation of State of MgSiO3 in the Gigabar Regime. ",
  APS March Meeting 2020, PPTX , online slides files. B. Militzer et al., " Measurement and Implication of Saturn's gravity field and ring mass ", 2019, PPTX , PDF files. Computer code 4. General-purpose quadratic Monte Carlo code ( QMC ). 3. First-principles equation of state ( FPEOS ) database for warm dense matter computation. 2. Equation of State of hydrogen-helium mixtures . 1. Equation of State of hot, dense helium . Open Positions We have open postdoc positions and opportunities for new Ph.D. students to work in planetary science and on computer simulations of matter at extreme conditions . 
Alternatively, you may be able to work with us by taking advantage of opportunities in Astronomy . Ph.D. applicants interested in this research should apply
to the department of Earth and
Planetary science . The deadline is in mid-December every year. Applicants are encouraged to contact me in advance to discuss mutual interests and specific research projects. Comparison of possible models for Jupiter's interior structure Nine models of Jupiter's interior structure (from left to right): Two layer model, three layer model, four layer models of types A and B, our five layer reference model (middle), alternate five layer models of types B, C, D, and our six layer model. The Juno spacecraft measured Jupiter's gravity field with high precision.
In our latest
article , we show that it is possible to match these gravity
measurements with a variety of interior models, except with a very simple two
layer model shown on the left. However, our five layer reference
model remains the most plausible model because of the phase diagram of
hydrogen and helium as well as other physical assumptions. Machine
readable data files for our models are available here: mrt_files_05-28-23.tgz . Novel State of Icy Matter Predicted for the Uranus and Neptune: Double Superionicity At high pressure and temperature, water assumes superionic state, in which the smaller hydrogen atoms behave like a liquid while the larger oxygen nuclei remain confined to their lattice sites. In our latest work , Kyla de Villa, Felipe Gonzalez and I predict the existence of a novel state of matter: double superionicity. On the left, we show for the material H 3 NO 4 that the hydrogen and the nitrogen nuclei are mobile while the oxygen atoms remain confined to their lattice sites. Here is a larger .mp4 animation . When ice compounds like H 3 NO 4 , CH 2 N 2 , or HCNO are gradually heated at high pressure, our computer simulations predict that the hydrogen nuclei are mobilized first and the material changes from a solid to a hydrogen superionic state. Upon further heating, we find that a second type of nuclei like N in H 3 NO 4 is mobilized and the material assumed a double superionic state, in which two types of nuclei behave like a liquid while the oxygen nuclei remain confined to the their lattice sites. Upon further heating the lattice oxygen nuclei melts also and the material assume a liquid state. We predict superionicity to be a common feature among compounds in the interiors of Uranus and Neptune. It will contribute the electrical conductity and thus enhance the generation of the magnetic fields in their interiors. Iron cores of Super-Earth planets all start crystallizing from center We computed the equation of state of solid and liquid iron and derived the melting line from 300 to 5000 GPa with ab initio free energy calculations. Our work was just published in Physical Review Research: " Ab initio determination of iron melting at terapascal pressures and Super-Earths core crystallization ". Here is the pdf file . At the inner-core boundary pressure of 330 GPa, our predicted melting temperature to be 6750 K, which is within the error bars of experimental measurements, but approximately 500 K higher than the prediction by Alfe et al. (2002). Our adiabats are shallower than our melt line, which implies the iron cores of Super-Earths always crystallize from the center like in our Earth. We also computed the free energy of the bcc phase at 300 GPa near the melting temperature and found it to be less stable than the hcp structure. From 300 to 5000 GPa, we predict iron melting temperature to increase from 6750 to 25000 K, which is hotter than the temperature of most Super-Earth interior models in the literature. It implies the cores to be completely frozen according to published models. Only Boujibar et al. 2020 allows for a wide range of interior temperatures for Super-Earth that allows for liquid and solid cores. We predict that the average core temperature of a two Earth mass planet must be at least 8000 K for its core not to be frozen completely. Our melting line is shallower than that of Stixrude 2014 and Morard 2011. We find the Lindeman criterion significantly underestimates the melting temperatures. We provide EOS tables with entropies and free energies for the solid phase and the liquid phase . Finally we analyze how the latent heat and entropy of melting change as a function of pressure. New Quadratic Monte Carlo method is much more efficient than the popular affine invariant method Illustration of quadratic (top) and affine invariant (bottom) moves in a confining channel (dashed lines). In our latest article , we study Jupiter's interior structure and introduce a new general-purpose Quadratic Monte Carlo (QMC) technique that is much more efficient in confining fitness landscapes than the popular affine invariant MCMC method that relies on linear stretch moves. We compare how long it takes the ensembles of walkers in both methods to travel to the most relevant parameter region. Once there, we compare the autocorrelation time and error bars of the two methods. For a ring potential and the 2d Rosenbrock function, we find that our quadratic Monte Carlo technique is significantly more efficient. This suggests a lot of computer time and thus electrical energy can be saved. Here we provide our open QMC source code , installation instructions and three example applications/implementations. How did Saturn Become the Lord of the Rings in our Solar System? My illustration of moon Chrysalis being dirupted by Saturn's gravity. Our calculation of Saturn's angular momentum as function of rotation period. Enlarged version of the graph in the middle that confirms that Saturn's is not in a spin-orbit resonance with Neptune today but it is very close... In our manuscript ( Science , 2022), Jack Wisdom, Rola Dbouk, I, William Hubbard, Francis Nimmo, Brynna Downey, and Richard French explain how Saturn received its prominent set of rings. For this joint project, I computed Saturn's moment of inertia and angular momentum by constructing models for the planet's interior structure that matched the gravity measurements of the Cassini spacecraft. The results from four independent calculations in the two graphs above show the planet's angular momentum is close but just outside the range for Saturn to be in a spin-orbit resonance with planet Neptune today . However, Saturn would have been in resonance if the planet once had an additional moon. In this case, Neptune could have tilted Saturn's spin axis by 27 o , which is far too large to have emerged automically when the planet formed out of the protosolar disk. The dynamical simulations by Jack Wisdom predict that Saturn's rings formed in the following way: (1) The Saturnian system formed with an additional moon, Chrysalis. Saturn's spin axis was perpendicular to its orbital plane. (2) Chrysalis gave Neptune an extra "handle" to tilt Saturn's spin axis (via a spin-orbit resonance) to the large value that we see today, 27 o . (3) Saturn's moon Titan started to migrate out. About 160 million years ago, it entered into an resonance with the moon Chrysalis destabilizing its orbit. (4) As a result, Chrysalis came so close to Saturn that it was sheared apart by Saturn's intense gravity (tidal disruption, illustrated in the figure above). Most of the material fell into Saturn but out of 1%, the rings formed. (5) With Chrysalis gone, Neptune could no longer change Saturn's spin axis. So the planet was left spinning at an angle of 27 o . (6) Over time the rings became thinner and thinner because particles, that do not share the orbital plane with the majority, will eventually collide with others. This 'grinding' process broke up ring particles and thus greatly increased their number. The ring particle also became slightly darker over time because of a slow but steady bombardment with meteorites. This process led us to conclude in 2019 that the rings were surprisingly young, only about 100 million year old. So next time, when you look at Saturn's rings, we recommend you appreciate them a little bit more because they will not be there forever. (Saturn's ring are being slowly eroded as particles fall into Saturn.) Our scenario for the formation of Saturn's rings is supported by the following lines of evidence: (a) It predicts a young age for Saturn's rings of only 100 million years approximately. This is in agreement with the ring color and Cassini's measurements of the ring mass. (b) It explains why Saturn's spin axis is tilted rather than being vertical, which it was when the planet formed. (c) It also explains why Saturn's moment of inertia is so close to the critical value to be in a spin-orbit resonance with Neptune but just outside of the critical region. (d) It is consistent with Titan's observed migration and offers an explanation why its orbit is slightly elliptical. So our scenario nicely ties together these four pieces of evidence that appeared to be unrelated for a long time. This makes our scenario much more likely than earlier work that had suggested that the rings formed from a captured Kuiper belt comet. Still there were no humans around a 100 million years ago to witness Chrysalis' disintegration directly. It would have been a spectacular event that anyone could have watched with binoculars. Here is a press release that Bob Sander's at UCB wrote . Will Dunham from Reuters , Randee Dawn from Today.com , and Kenna Hughes-Castleberry from TheDebrief.org wrote articles about this work. Here is short piece that aired on Science Friday . Gravity measurements by Juno spacecraft imply Jupiter has a dilute core Jupiter's interior structure with helium rain layer and dilute core. Heavy element (upper panel) and helium mass fractions (lower panel). Gravity harmonics J 4 and J 6 measured by the Juno spacecraft (red diamond) and predicted from models (all other symbols). The Juno spacecraft measured Jupiter's gravity field with exquisite
precision. Matching the measurements with interior models that also
agree findings by the earlier Galileo entry probe and make
physical assumptions about the properties of hydogen-helium mixtures
has been a real challenge. In our latest article , we satisfy Juno and Galileo measurements for the first time by
constructing Jupiter models with a large dilute core that
extends to 60% of the planet's radius (left and middle panels). We
predict the dilute core to be comprised of 58% hydrogen, 24% helium,
and only 18% of heavier elements.  The dilute core reduces the magnitudes of
the gravity harmonics J 4 and J 6 (right panel) so
such an extent that we can match the spacecraft measurements with wind
models that we optimize simultanesouly with model parameters for the
interior. Our dilute core is homogeneous and convective. So we predict
it to contribute to the generation of Jupiter's magnetic field in
addition to the metallic hydrogen layer. Having two interacting dynamo
layers may help explain the structure of Jupiter's magnetic field. Do rock and ice mix when water world planets form? Initial and final configurations of ab initio simulations of rock-ice mixtures. Pressure-temperature conditions where rock and ice remain separate (blue) or mix (red) in all proportions. Simulation of planet size imacts illustrating that rock and ice mix dynamically. In our latest article , T. Kovacevic, F. Gonzalez-Cataldo, S. T. Stewart, and I study conditions in the interiors of water world planets that are expected to contain large amounts of rock and ice. We focus on the question whether they have well separated layers or rock and ice or if they likely have mixed rock-ice layers. First we performed ab initio computer simulations (upper left diagram) and determined rock and ice mix in all proportions as soon as the temperatures become sufficiently high for rock to melt (upper center). Finally we perform planet-size impact simulations (upper right) with the SPH method to demonstrate that such conditions are reached when giant impacts occur during a planet's formation. We conclude of water world planets likely have mixed layer when they form but it yet remains to be determined how long such layers last. How hot do solids become during ramp compression experiments? Phase diagram of carbon with liquid and solid model for ramp compression experiments In our latest article , F. Gonzalez-Cataldo, B.K. Godwal, K. Driver, R. Jeanloz, and I study with computer simulations a material becomes during ramp compression experients. The work was motivated by the ramp compression experiments on diamond by R. Smith et al. that reached stress conditions of several tera Pascals. We found that for a given density, the measured stresses were too high to be compatible with results from ab initio simulations. The measured density-stress point can be matched with simulation results of liquid carbon (yellow symbols). This assumes the diamond samples melted during compression, which is under debate. There was sufficient energy in the experiment for this occur but no evi

