Name: Carl Blumstein

Description: Carl Blumstein is the executive director of CITRIS Climate and theCalifornia Institute for Energy and Environment(CIEE), where he has explored the state’s and nation’s energy challenges inside and out and worked to address them from important angles. He has more than 35 years of experience in energy research and R&D management, and served for 10 years as the associate director of CIEE before becoming the director in 2002. As associate director, he represented UC in the regulatory and legislative proceedings that lead to the establishment of the California Energy Commission’s Public Interest Energy Research (PIER) program. Blumstein has worked with the PIER program in a variety of capacities since its inception in 1998. He also has a research appointment at the UC Energy Institute where he has been an energy policy analyst since 1981. His research interests center on energy efficiency and energy policy.Blumstein’s recent work includes publications on evaluation and incentives for energy efficiency programs, administration of energy efficiency programs, restructuring in the electric power supply industry, the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, and the role of market transformation in energy efficiency programs.Blumstein is chairman of the board of directors of the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy (ACEEE), a member of the board of trustees of the Consortium for Energy Efficiency and a member of the Gas Technology Institute’s Public Interest Advisory Committee. He served on the board of governors of the California Power Exchange from 1997 to 2003. He has a B.S. from Reed College, an M.S. from San Diego State University, and a Ph.D. from UC San Diego in Chemistry.

Title: Executive Director, CITRIS Climate

Website: nan

Email: blumstei@citris-uc.org

Phone: nan

Address: 330H Sutardja Dai Hall University of California, Berkeley

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/carl-blumstein/

Personal Website Text Short: nan

