Name: Chenming Hu

Description: Dr. Chenming Hu has been called theFather of 3D Transistorfor developing theFinFETin1999.   Intel is thefirstcompany to use FinFET in 2011 production calling it themost radicalshift in semiconductor technology in over 50 years.  By 2015 all top servers, computers, Android and ios phones use FinFET processors. He received theNational Technology and Innovation MedalfromPresident Obamain the White House in 2016. The world’s largest technology associationIEEEcalled him “Microelectronics Visionary” when presenting him the 2009 Nishizawa Medal for “achievements critical to producing smaller yet more reliable and higher-performance integrated circuits”.  2011Asian AmericanEngineer of the YearAward cited his industry-standard transistor model “used in designing IC products with cumulative sales of many hundreds of billions of dollars”.  2013Kaufman Awardnoted his “tremendous career of creativity and innovation that fueled the past four decades of the semiconductor industry”.  USSemiconductor Industry Associationlauded his research leadership for “advancementof the electronics industry and of our national economy”.Dr. Hu is Professor in Graduate School of University of California, Berkeley, a board director of Ambarella and Inphi and chairman of the nonprofitFriends of Children with Special Needs.   From 2001 to 2004 he was the Chief Technology Officer of TSMC, world’s largest dedicated integrated circuits manufacturing company.   He was a board director of Sandisk before its merger with Western Digital, the board chairman of the nonprofit East Bay Chinese School, Oakland, CA. and the founding chairman of Celestry Design Technologies until its acquisition by Cadence Design Systems.He hasauthoredfive books including a 2010semiconductor device textbookand 900 research papers, and has been granted over 100 US patents.   He is honored with memberships in three national academies — the US National Academy of Engineering, the Chinese Academy of Sciences and  Academia Sinica — and in the US Academy of Inventors .  His many other professional honors include the IEEE Andrew Grove Award for device reliability research and Solid State Circuits Award for theBSIMtransistor model,Honorary DoctoralDegree of National Chiao Tung University, SRCAristotle Awardfor influential mentoring of many outstandingstudentsand the IEEE EDSEducation Awardfor “distinguished contributions to education and inspiration of students, practicing engineers and future educators”.   He also received UC Berkeley’shighest honor for teaching— the Berkeley Distinguished Teaching Award.Dr. Hu received his B.S. degree from National Taiwan University, which honored him with the 2011Distinguished Alumni Award, and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from  UC Berkeley, all in electrical engineering.  He is currently researchinggreentransistor for a new century of growth in electronics.  He shares an interest in painting with his sons Raymond and Jason.

Title: TSMC Distinguished Chair, Professor

Website: http://www.eecs.berkeley.edu/~hu/

Email: hu@eecs.berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 642-3393

Address: University of California, Berkeley 502 Cory Hall #1770 Berkeley, Ca 94720 - 1770

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-chenming-hu/

Personal Website Text Short: Chenming Hu Chenming Hu home Biography CV Publications Research Chenming Hu Photo Archive Photographs of the Himalayas Chenming Hu Paintings Raymond Hu Paintings Contact 1979 Gas-Electric Hybrid Car BSIM Standard Models Since 1995 FinFET 3D Transistor Photo Archive Paintings by Chenming Hu Paintings by Raymond Hu Home Chenming Hu TSMC Distinguished Professor Emeritus University of California, Berkeley Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences +1-510-642-3393 hu@eecs.berkeley.edu Recent Events 2016 National Medal of Technology and Innovation White House ceremony Video 2024 Berkeley International House Global Impact Award 2023 Taiwan Presidential Science Prize and prize introduction 2022 Chenming and Margaret Hu Center at Friends of Children with Special Needs dedication photo 2021 Honorary Doctoral Degree of the University of Hong Kong 2020 IEEE Medal of Honor , IEEE’s highest honor Video 2018 Asian Health Services Hu Medical Center , dedication photo 2016 Chenming Hu Innovation Lab , Univ. of California, Berkeley 2016 Silicon Valley Engineering Hall of Fame Induction 2015 SEMI Award for “ BSIM family of compact transistor models” 2013 Kaufman Award for “distinguished contributions to electronic design automation” Video 2012 Celebratory Symposium: Electrons to Electronics Photos 2012 NYCU Honorary Doctoral Degree Video 2011 Asian American Engineer of the Year Award 2011 Semiconductor Industry Association Award 2011 National Taiwan Univ. Distinguished Alumni Award Video Biography Publication List Modern Semiconductor Devices for Integrated Circuits Purchase from Amazon / Free Download / Lecture Slides FinFET Modeling for IC Simulation and Design Purchase at Elsevier BSIM4 and MOSFET Modeling for IC Simulation Purchase at World Scientific Solar Cells – From Basics to Advanced Systems Free Download Administrative Assistant Ms. Charlotte Jones Research Support Assistant University of CA Berkeley Engineering Research Support Organization Berkeley, CA  94720 +1-510-664-4203,  email: cmjones@eecs.berkeley.edu Copyright © 2024 Chenming Hu All Right Reserved. Online CV Resume Theme By eDataStyle . Proudly powered by WordPress .

