Name: Costas Spanos

Description: Costas Spanos is director emeritus of CITRIS and the Banatao Institute, which he led from 2014–23. He is also the Andrew S. Grove Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at UC Berkeley, and the chief technical officer of the Berkeley Education Alliance for Research in Singapore (BEARS). He has served as the EECS department chair and the associate dean for research in the College of Engineering at Berkeley. His present research is focusing on energy and sustainability.As the Andrew S. Grove Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, Spanos conducts research on the application of statistical analysis in the design and fabrication of integrated circuits, and the development and deployment of novel sensors and computer-aided techniques in semiconductor manufacturing. He is also using statistical data mining techniques for energy efficiency applications, and is the leader of the Singapore-based SinBerBEST project, focusing on energy efficient buildings.In 1988, Spanos joined the faculty at UC Berkeley, where he has served as Department Chair of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, the Associate Dean for Research, and the CEO of the Berkeley Educational Alliance for Research in Singapore. Spanos received his master’s and doctoral degrees in electrical and computer engineering from Carnegie Mellon University in 1981 and 1985, after which he worked for three years at the advanced computer-aided design group of the Digital Equipment Corp.

Title: Andrew S. Grove Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences

Website: http://www.eecs.berkeley.edu/Faculty/Homepages/spanos.html

Email: nan

Phone: (510) 643-2200

Address: University of California, Berkeley 510 Cory Hall Berkeley, CA 94720

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/costas-spanos/

Personal Website Text Short: Costas J. Spanos | EECS at UC Berkeley Skip to Content Expand Search Form Collapse Search Form Expand Main Menu Collapse Main Menu Search for: Search For Students For Faculty/Staff Industry News Events Give Search for: Search About About Expand Submenu About About Overview History Expand Submenu The First Women of EECS Joseph Thomas Gier Diversity Expand Submenu Hear From Women in EECS Broadening Participation in EECS Visiting By the Numbers Special Events Expand Submenu 2022-23 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 The Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) at UC Berkeley offers one of the strongest research and instructional programs in this field anywhere in the world. Blog Academics Academics Expand Submenu Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Admissions & Programs Expand Submenu CS Major EECS Major EECS/CS Program Comparison Chart Second Bachelor's Degree Summer Research Cal Day Graduate Admissions & Programs Expand Submenu Grad Admissions FAQ Industry-Oriented Programs Research-Oriented Programs Fellowships Adding the EECS/CS M.S. From Another Department Recommended Coursework For Current Students Expand Submenu ed | EECS 101 Courses Expand Submenu EE Courses CS Courses Unlike many institutions of similar stature, regular EE and CS faculty teach the vast majority of our courses, and the most exceptional teachers are often also the most exceptional researchers. View Courses Research Research Expand Submenu Research Research Overview Areas Centers & Labs Colloquium Expand Submenu Archive BEARS Symposium Expand Submenu Archive Technical Reports Ph.D. Dissertations Research is the foundation of Berkeley EECS. Faculty, students, and staff work together on cutting-edge projects that cross disciplinary boundaries to improve everyday life and make a difference. EECS Research People People Expand Submenu People People Overview Directory Leadership Faculty Expand Submenu In Memoriam Students Expand Submenu Student Awards Student Organizations Staff Expand Submenu Student Affairs Faculty  Support Course Support Facilities and Engineering Services Financial Services HR IT Support Industrial & Public Relations Alumni Expand Submenu EE Distinguished Alumni CS Distinguished Alumni EECS faculty, students, staff, and alumni are central to our success as one of the most thriving and distinguished departments on the Berkeley campus. Latest News Connect Connect Expand Submenu Connect Connect Overview Support EECS Expand Submenu EECS Excellence Fund Memorial Funds K-12 Outreach Student Affairs Faculty Positions Staff Positions Contact Expand Submenu In an Emergency Consider reaching out for a conversation, attending a department seminar or conference, viewing a lecture on any one of our public channels, or supporting us via a gift to the university. You can help strengthen our dedication to education and outreach, solidify close ties to industry, and nourish a supportive and inclusive culture. Contact us Home / People / Faculty / Costas J. Spanos Costas J. Spanos Research Areas Power and Energy (ENE) Integrated Circuits (INC) Physical Electronics (PHY) Solid-State Devices Semiconductor manufacturing Research Centers Berkeley Power and Energy Center (BPEC) CITRIS People and Robots (CPAR) Integrated Modeling Process and Computation for Technology (IMPACT) Tsinghua-UC Berkeley Shenzhen Institute (TBSI) Biography COSTAS J. SPANOS received the Electrical Engineering Diploma from the National Technical University of Athens, Greece in 1980 and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Carnegie Mellon University in 1981 and 1985, respectively. From 1985 to 1988 he was with the advanced Computer-Aided Design group of Digital Equipment Corporation, where he worked on the statistical characterization, simulation and diagnosis of VLSI processes. In 1988 he joined the faculty in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at the University of California at Berkeley.  He was the Director of the Berkeley Microfabrication Laboratory from 1994 to 2000, the  Director of the Electronics Research Laboratory from 2004 to 2005, and the Associate Dean for Research in the College of Engineering from 2004 to 2008.  From 2008 to 2010 he served as Associate Chair for the EECS Department, and from 2010 through June 2012, he was the Chair of the Department. Professor Spanos has served in the technical committees of numerous conferences and was the editor of the IEEE Transactions on Semiconductor Manufacturing from 1991 to 1994. He has published more than 200 refereed articles, has received several best paper awards and has co-authored a textbook on semiconductor manufacturing. His present research interests include the application of statistical analysis in the design and fabrication of integrated circuits, and the development and deployment of novel sensors and computer-aided techniques in semiconductor manufacturing. In 2000, he was elected Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers for contributions and leadership in semiconductor manufacturing. Selected Publications G. S. May and C. J. Spanos, Fundamentals of Semiconductor Manufacturing and Process Control , Wiley-Interscience, Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons, Inc./IEEE Press, 2006. K. Poolla and C. J. Spanos, " Methods of and apparatus for controlling process profiles ," U.S. Patent 7,016,754. March 2006. Q. Zhang, P. Friedberg, K. Poolla, and C. J. Spanos, " Enhanced spatial PEB uniformity through a novel bake plate design ," in Proc. AEC/APC XVII Symp. 2005 , Austin, TX: AEC/APC Official Proceedings CD-ROM, 2005, pp. 1-5. M. Freed, M. V. P. Kruger, C. J. Spanos, and K. Poolla, " Wafer-grown heat flux sensor arrays for plasma etch processes ," IEEE Trans. Semiconductor Manufacturing , vol. 18, no. 1, pp. 148-162, Feb. 2005. M. L. Freed, R. S. Mundt, and C. J. Spanos, " Methods and apparatus for obtaining data for process operation, optimization, monitoring, and control ," U.S. Patent 6,691,068. Feb. 2004. M. Freed, M. Kruger, C. J. Spanos, and K. Poolla, " Autonomous on-wafer sensors for process modeling, diagnosis, and control ," IEEE Trans. Semiconductor Manufacturing , vol. 14, no. 3, pp. 255-264, Aug. 2001. X. Niu, N. Jakatdar, J. Bao, and C. J. Spanos, " Specular spectroscopic scatterometry ," IEEE Trans. Semiconductor Manufacturing , vol. 14, no. 2, pp. 97-111, May 2001. Awards, Memberships and Fellowships Building and Environment Best Paper Award ,
                                                                                2018 Distinguished Berkeley Faculty Mentor Award (FMA) ,
                                                                                2016 Institute of Electrical & Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Fellow ,
                                                                                2000 IEEE Electron Devices Society (EDS) Fellows ,
                                                                                2000 Photo Larger Photo Links Publications Dissertations Contact Information 510 Cory Hall tel: 510-643-6776 fax: 642-2739 Research Support Eva Leach eva.leach@berkeley.edu About History Diversity Visiting Special Events People Directory Leadership Faculty Staff Students Alumni Connect Support Us K-12 Outreach Faculty Positions Staff Positions Contact Academics Undergrad Admissions & Programs Graduate Admissions & Programs Courses Prospective Women Students Current Students Resources Room Reservations My EECS Info For Students For Grads For Undergrads For ASEs IT Services Facilities/Safety For Faculty/Staff Visiting Scholars Research Areas Centers & Labs Projects Technical Reports PhD Dissertations Joint Colloquium BEARS Symposium Industry Recruit Students Corporate Access Learn more about the Campaign for Berkeley and Graduate Fellowships. Give to EECS Berkeley EECS on Twitter Berkeley EECS on Instagram Berkeley EECS on LinkedIn Berkeley EECS on YouTube EE CS UC Berkeley Berkeley Engineering CDSS Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy Contact © 2023 UC Regents

