Name: David Horsley

Description: Dr. David Horsley is a Professor in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at the University of California, Davis, USA, and has been a co-director of the Berkeley Sensor and Actuator Center (BSAC) since 2005. His research interests include microfabricated sensors and actuators with applications in optics, displays, and physical and biological sensors.Dr. Horsley received the Ph.D. degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Berkeley in 1998 for his thesis work pioneering dual-stage microactuators in hard disk drives. Prior to joining the faculty at UC Davis, he held positions at Dicon Fiberoptics (where he initiated the development of passive fiber-optics components based on MEMS technology), Hewlett Packard Laboratories (where he and his colleagues developed a MEMS-based storage device based on scanning probe technology) and was involved in founding Onix Microsystems (where he conceived and designed a large fiber-optic cross-connect switch based on optical beamsteering). He is a cofounder of Picosense LLC and he has consulted or conducted sponsored research for several major semiconductor manufacturers.Prof. Horsley is a recipient of the NSF CAREER Award and the UC Davis College of Engineering’s Outstanding Junior Faculty Award.

Title: Assistant Professor

Website: http://mae.ucdavis.edu/dahorsley/

Email: dahorsley@ucdavis.edu

Phone: nan

Address: University of California, Davis Department of Mechanical and Aeronautical Engineering One Shields Ave Davis, CA 95616-5294

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-david-horsley/

Personal Website Text Short: Page not found | Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Skip to main content Menu Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Open Search Search Quick Links + Apply Directory Laboratory Safety Events Course Schedules Department Resources Maps and Directions College of Engineering Emergency Services Campus Map Course Catalog Schedule Builder COE Resources Intranet Department Opportunities MAE Teaching Faculty Resources Main navigation (extended config) About Letter from the Chair Advisory Board Directory Maps and Directions Commitment to Diversity Undergraduate Aerospace Engineering Areas of Interest in Aerospace Engineering Mechanical Engineering Areas of Interest in Mechanical Engineering Undergraduate Advising New Students - Aggie Advising Chevron Tutoring Center Student Organizations ABET MAE Course Schedule Enrollment Policies Graduate Doctoral Degree Master of Science Admissions Application Requirements Frequently Asked Questions Current Graduate Students Graduate Program Faculty Graduate Student Organization Graduate Contacts Graduate Courses Faculty & Research Design, Manufacturing, MEMS and Nanostructures Dynamics, Controls, Vehicles and Robotics Energy, Propulsion and Environment Fluid Mechanics and Aerodynamics Human-Systems Engineering Mechanics of Solids, Structures and Materials Research Centers and Laboratories News Give Page not found Breadcrumb Home Page not found The requested page could not be found. University of California, Davis , One Shields Avenue, Davis, CA 95616 | 530-752-1011 Questions or comments? Privacy & Accessibility Principles of Community University of California Sitemap Last update: May 15, 2024 Copyright © The Regents of the University of California, Davis campus. All rights reserved. This site is officially grown in SiteFarm .

