Name: Dr. Randi Hagerman

Description: Dr. Randi Hagerman is a developmental and behavioral pediatrician and the Medical Director of the MIND Institute at UC Davis.  She is internationally recognized as both a clinician and researcher in the fragile X field.  Dr. Hagerman received her M.D. from Stanford University where she also carried out her Pediatric residency.  She completed a Fellowship in Learning and Disabilities and Ambulatory Pediatrics at UC San Diego and, subsequently, spent the next 20 years from 1980 to 2000 at the University of Colorado where she headed Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics.  She co-founded the National Fragile X Foundation in 1984 in Colorado and developed a world-renowned fragile X research and treatment center.  In 2000, Professor Hagerman moved to UC Davis to be the Medical Director of the MIND Institute.  Dr. Hagerman and her team discovered the Fragile X-associated Tremor/Ataxia Syndrome (FXTAS) which is a neurological disorder that affects older male and rare female carriers of fragile X.  Dr. Hagerman’s research involves genotype-phenotype correlations in fragile X and she carries out this research in collaboration with her husband, Paul Hagerman, M.D., Ph.D.  Professor Randi Hagerman has written over 200 peer-reviewed articles and numerous book chapters on neurodevelopmental disorders.  She has written several books on fragile X including a 3rd Edition of Fragile X Syndrome: Diagnosis, Treatment, and Research which was published in 2002 by Johns Hopkins University Press.  Dr. Hagerman has received numerous awards for her research in fragile X syndrome including the Jerrett Cole Award from the National Fragile X Foundation for unselfish dedication to work with fragile X children and adults, the Bonfils-Stanton Foundation Award for Science including Medicine, the IASSID Distinguished Achievement Award for Scientific Literature, the 2005 Distinguished Scholarly Public Service Award from UC Davis, and the 2006 Dean’s Award for Outstanding Mentoring at UC Davis.  In 2004, to honor both Randi and Paul Hagerman in recognition of their work in FXTAS, the National Fragile X Foundation established the Hagerman Award.  This award recognizes research accomplishments in the field of FXTAS and is given at the bi-annual International Conference on Fragile X.  In 2008, the National Fragile X Foundation again honored Dr. Hagerman with a Lifetime Achievement Award. Dr. Hagerman has worked internationally to establish fragile X clinical programs and research programs throughout the world.  Dr Hagerman is currently carrying out multiple targeted treatment trials in FXS and in autism including a controlled trial of Arbaclofen, minocycline, ganaxolone, mGluR5 antagonists developed by Roche and another by Novartis, and sertraline. She is also the PI of a controlled trial of memantine in older fragile X premutation carriers with FXTAS.

Title: Medical Director of the MIND Institute, Professor and Endowed Chair in Fragile X Research

Website: http://www.ucdmc.ucdavis.edu/mindinstitute/ourteam/faculty_staff/rhagerman.html

Email: randi.hagerman@ucdmc.ucdavis.edu

Phone: (916) 703-0247

Address: University of California, Davis, MIND Institute
2825 50th St.
Sacramento, CA 95817

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/dr-randi-hagerman/

Personal Website Text Short: Page Not Found search Search All UC Davis Health Main Menu add menu Main Menu close Main Menu Main Menu remove UC Davis Health Home Patients & Visitors Services & Specialties Health Care Professionals Schools & Programs Research News About UC Davis Health Giving Careers search Search × Search All UC Davis Health close Search All UC Davis Health location_on Maps & Directions Referrals & Appointments call Contact Us volunteer_activism Make a Donation groups Become a Volunteer work Career Opportunities Show menu menu Menu Research Clinics & Programs Education & Training Resources News Events chevron_right chevron_left Back Events Community Events Distinguished Lecturer Series Summer Institute on Neurodevelopmental Disabilities Our Team chevron_right chevron_left Back Our Team arrow_forward The MIND Institute team includes physicians, researchers, social workers, child life specialists and other providers from many different specialties who are leaders in their fields. They collaborate on groundbreaking research and exceptional clinical care for individuals with neurodevelopmental conditions. Administration Campus Advisory Committee Faculty Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Members and Allies Executive Committee National Council of Visitors Quick Links location_on Maps & Directions Referrals & Appointments call Contact Us volunteer_activism Make a Donation groups Become a Volunteer work Career Opportunities Page Not Found Page Not Found The Web page you are attempting to view is not available. Please confirm that you have the correct address and spelling of the page you were seeking. To report the issue, send us an email at hs-webmaster@ucdavis.edu with the subject line "Web Page Not Found." Include information on how you got to this page, including the address you typed, so we can address the problem. UC Davis MIND Institute Make a Gift 2825 50th Street Sacramento, CA 95817 Main Line: 916-703-0280 Massie Family Clinic: 916-703-0300 Contact Us Quick Links Register to be a research participant Massie Family Clinic Events and Lectures Map and Directions Our Team Centers Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities Research Center Center for Excellence in Developmental Disabilities Affiliated Centers Center for Neuroscience Center for Mind and Brain Medical Center Children’s Hospital Rehabilitation Hospital Neighborhood clinics School of Medicine Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing Medical Group ABOUT UC DAVIS HEALTH About Us Contact Us Social Media Maps and Directions FOR PATIENTS MyUCDavisHealth Find a Provider or Faculty Clinic Locations Clinical Trials Referring Physicians Patient Financial Assistance Price Transparency COVID-19 Resources WE ARE PART OF UC Davis University of California Health University of California © 2024 UC Regents. All Rights Reserved  | Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy 4301 X St., Sacramento, CA 95817

