Name: Edward Arens

Description: Edward Arens, Ph.D., is Professor of Architecture at UC Berkeley. He was the Director of the Center for Environmental Design Research, which assists faculty, students, and others interested in research focusing on the design and planning of the built environment. Professor Arens is currently the Director of the Center for the Built Environment, a National Science Foundation-sponsored industry/university cooperative research consortium centered at UC Berkeley.Professor Arens received his Ph.D. in Architectural Science in 1972 from the University of Edinburgh, UK, and also holds a BA in architectural history and masters degrees in Forestry and Urban Studies from Yale University. Prof. Arens started UC’s Building Science Laboratory in 1980 after heading the Architectural Research Section at the National Bureau of Standards. His research interests are in building design and operation for comfort and energy conservation, building aerodynamics, and innovative building mechanical systems and controls. He is active in technical and standards committees of ASCE (American Society of Civil Engineers) and ASHRAE (American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers), and is a member of ASES (American Solar Energy Society), SBSE (Society of Building Science Educators), IFMA (International Facilities Management Association), and IDRC (International Development Research Council).His areas of research activity include thermal comfort, buildings and climate and building energy conservation.

Title: Director

Website: http://www.cbe.berkeley.edu/aboutus/staff-edward.htm

Email: earens@berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 642-1158

Address: University of California, Berkeley 232 Wurster Hall #1800 Berkeley, CA 94720-1800

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/edward-arens/

Personal Website Text Short: Origin DNS error | www.cbe.berkeley.edu | Cloudflare Please enable cookies. Error 1016 Ray ID: 888a0d94df5efa26 • 2024-05-24 03:03:31 UTC Origin DNS error What happened? You've requested a page on a website (www.cbe.berkeley.edu) that is on the Cloudflare network. Cloudflare is currently unable to resolve your requested domain (www.cbe.berkeley.edu). What can I do? If you are a visitor of this website: Please try again in a few minutes. If you are the owner of this website: Check your DNS settings. If you are using a CNAME origin record, make sure it is valid and resolvable. Additional troubleshooting information here. Was this page helpful? Yes No Thank you for your feedback! Cloudflare Ray ID: 888a0d94df5efa26 • Your IP: Click to reveal 136.25.14.173 • Performance & security by Cloudflare

