Name: Elaine Sullivan

Description: My work on 3D visualizations of ancient Egyptian sites aligns with the CITRIS mission of ‘Connected Communities’ and the innovative use of virtual reality/augmented reality (VR/AR) applications for cultural heritage preservation.Research interests:Egyptology; Archaeology; Digital Humanities; Virtual Reality; Ancient landscapes; Temples and ritual sites; Women and gender

Title: Assistant Professor

Website: https://people.ucsc.edu/easulliv

Email: easulliv@ucsc.edu

Phone: nan

Address: nan

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/elaine-sullivan/

Personal Website Text Short: Campus Directory - UC Santa Cruz UC Santa Cruz MyUCSC People Calendars Maps A-Z Index Search Campus Directory About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life Visit UCSC Quick Start Guides Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Prospective Students Parents & Family Community Home » Find People » Campus Directory Search for people, departments, or email addresses. « Back To Search Results Elaine A. Sullivan Associate Professor 831-459-3109 easulliv@ucsc.edu Division Humanities Division Department/College/Unit History Department Title Associate Professor Affiliation Faculty Other UCSC Campus Affiliation Anthropology Department Classical Studies Archaeological Research Center Center for the Middle East and North Africa (CMENA) Faculty Type Regular Faculty Areas of Expertise Egyptology Archaeology Digital Humanities Virtual Reality, Immersive, and Augmented Reality Environments Ancient World / Classics History Web Site Constructing the Sacred: Visibility and Ritual Landscape at the Egyptian Necropolis of Saqqara the Digital Karnak Project Archaeological Research Center Full publication listing on Academia.edu Primary Office Location Humanities Building 1 236 Office Hours for Students/ Office Hours Spring quarter 2024: Tues&Thurs 2:30-3:30 in Humanities or via Zoom (please email for appointment) Mail Stop Humanities Academic Services Biography, Education and Training Elaine A. Sullivan is an Egyptologist and a Digital Humanist whose work focuses on applying new technologies to ancient cultural materials. Her born-digital publication, Constructing the Sacred, utilizes a geo-temporal 3D model of the necropolis of Saqqara (near modern Cairo) to investigate questions of ritual landscape and visibility at the site. This digital monograph ( https://constructingthesacred.org , Stanford University Press, 2020) was awarded prizes by the American Historical Association and the Archaeological Institute of America. Her archaeological work in Egypt includes five seasons of excavation with Johns Hopkins University at the temple of the goddess Mut (Luxor), as well as four seasons in the field with a joint UCLA-Rijksuniversiteit Groningen project in the Egyptian Fayum at the Greco-Roman town of Karanis. She has also excavated at sites in Syria, Italy, and Israel. Sullivan has published extensively on the use of digital technologies for research and scholarship. Dr. Sullivan received her M.A. and Ph.D. in Egyptian Art and Archaeology from Johns Hopkins University. Her B.A. (Magna Cum Laude) in History is from Duke University. Research Interests Research interests include landscape, temples and ritual sites, women and gender, and the use of digital toolkits in historical research. Awards, Honors and Grants Archaeological Institute of America (AIA) Award for Outstanding Work in Digital Archaeology, 2022 American Historical Association (AHA)  Roy Rosenzweig Prize for Innovation in Digital History, 2020 National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) Digital Publication Awardee, 2018-2019 National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) Digital Humanities Start-Up Grant Awardee, 2015-2016 American Council of Learned Societies (ACLS) Digital Innovation Fellowship, 2012-2013 Archaeological Institute of America (AIA), National Lecture Program speaker, 2012-2013 UC Chancellor's Award for Post-Doctoral Scholarship, 2010 ARCE Dissertation Fellowship, 2005 Selected Publications Constructing the sacred: Visibility and ritual landscape at the Egyptian necropolis of Saqqara . Stanford University Press, March 2020. https://constructingthesacred.org "Seeking a better view: Using 3D to investigate visibility in historic landscapes." Journal of Archaeological Method & Theory , Vol. 24, issue 4. 2017. "Digital Karnak: An experiment in publication and peer review of interactive, three-dimensional content." Co-author Lisa M. Snyder. Journal of the Society of Architectural Historians , Vol 76, issue 4. December 2017. "Potential pasts: Taking a humanistic approach to computer visualization of ancient landscapes." Bulletin of the Institute of Classical Studies, Vol 59, issue 2 , 71-88. December 2016. "The 3D SAQQARA project: Technical Workflow for Creating 3D Environments from 2D Archaeological Data." Co-Author: Aaron Cole. Required 'White Paper' submitted to the NEH Official of Digital Humanities , 2017. A Glimpse into Ancient Thebes: Excavations at South Karnak (2004-2006). Archaeopress: 2013. “Teaching Digital Humanities through Digital Cultural Mapping.” Co-authors: Chris Johanson, Willeke Wendrich, et. al. In Brett Hirsch (ed.), Teaching Digital Humanities: Principles, Practices, and Politics . Open Book Publishers: 2013. “Visualizing the Size and Movement of the Portable Festival Bark at Karnak Temple.” British Museum Studies in Ancient Egypt and Sudan. No. 19, December 2012 . “The Development of the Temple of Amun at Karnak.” In Willeke Wendrich (ed.), UCLA Encyclopedia of Egyptology , Los Angeles: 2010. “An Offering to Amun-Ra: Building a Virtual Reality Model of Karnak.” Co-author: Willeke Wendrich. In Nigel Strudwick (ed.), Information Technology and Egyptology in 2008. Gorgias Press, Piscataway: 2009. Courses History 050: When Pharaohs Reigned: The History of Ancient Egypt HIS 051: Pyramids of Earth History 159A: Cleopatra to Constantine: Greek and Roman Egypt History 189: @history: Doing History in a Digital Age History 159B: Women and Gender in Ancient Egypt History 159C: Temple and City: The Egyptian New Kingdom and the City of Thebes History 159D: When Cities were New: the Rise of Urbanism in the Ancient Near East and Mediterranean History 194S: Who Owns the Past?: Object Lives in the Ancient Near East and Mediterranean HIS 208: An Introduction to Digital Humanities (Graduate Class) If you have the proper permissions, you can edit this entry This campus directory is the property of the University of California at Santa Cruz. To protect the privacy of individuals listed herein, in accordance with the State of California Information Practices Act, this directory may not be used, rented, distributed, or sold for commercial purposes. For more details, please see the university guidelines for assuring privacy of personal information in mailing lists and telephone directories. If you have any questions please contact the ITS Support Center . UC Santa Cruz, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, Ca 95064 ©2018 Regents of the University of California. All Rights Reserved. (3) Feedback Accreditation Non-Discrimination Policy Employment Privacy Policy & Terms of Use Sexual Violence Prevention & Response Last modified: July 30, 2018

