Name: Gaymond Yee

Description: Gaymond Yee is a Research Coordinator at CIEE where he works on the Enabling Technologies Development Project as well as for i4Energy. Gaymond works with multi-disciplinary and collaborative research teams from universities, national laboratories, and private industries developing the next generation of hardware and software building blocks for future smart grid applications.Prior to CIEE, Gaymond has over 12 years experience in research and in implementation of successful energy-related projects. These projects include commercial energy management systems, residential energy information systems, electricity curtailment programs utilizing programmable communicating thermostats, and wireless smart meters.He has a Bachelor of Science Degree in Mechanical and Nuclear Engineering, and a Master of Engineering Degree in Mechanical Engineering from UC Berkeley.

Title: Research Coordinator

Website: http://uc-ciee.org/

Email: Gaymond.Yee@uc-ciee.org

Phone: (510) 459-6063

Address: California Institute for Energy and Environment, University of California 2087 Addison Street, Second Floor Berkeley, CA 94704-1103

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/gaymond-yee/

Personal Website Text Short: California Institute for Energy and Environment (CIEE) Skip to content MENU MENU About Who we are Latest Team Partners Founder Projects Student Opportunities Public Engagement Sentinel Newsletter BECC Conference BERC Energy Summit Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Innovate, Engage, Inspire Bold Ideas, World-class Research, Innovative Solutions Based in UC Berkeley, at CITRIS and the Banatao Institute, California Institute for Energy and Environment (CIEE) leverages innovative & unique collaborative research , engaging influential stakeholders, partners & donors , while offering hands-on experience for the next generation . CIEE CITRIS Student Opportunities Latest Book Review: Miriam Aczel on American Climate Migration CIEE Postdoctoral Scholar Dr. Miriam Aczel recently co-published a book review of On the Move: The Overheating Earth and the Uprooting of America by journalist Abrahm Lustgarten in Science Magazine. Event Recap: Strategies for Buildings and Technician Education at the 2024 National Institute Co-hosted by the Building Efficiency for a Sustainable Tomorrow (BEST) Center and the Lawrence Berkeley National Lab (LBNL), this year’s conference centered on the theme, “Less Carbon, More Action! Strategies for Buildings & Technician Education.” Surles Makes Case for Sustainable Energy Transitions CIEE Senior Advisor Dr. Terry Surles and co-author Joachim Monkelbaan propose an integrated approach to implementing the global energy transition in the latest issue of the Journal of International Business and Diplomacy. Research Updates from 2023 Art Rosenfeld Award Winner Eleanor Adachi Eleanor Adachi, a dual-degree Master’s student at UC Berkeley and recipient of the 2023 Art Rosenfeld Award, shares how the award has helped further her research on dynamic electricity pricing and beyond. Sustainable Systems for Energy: Supporting the CPUC on Multi-Attribute Energy and Environmental Decision-Making CIEE manages a program for supporting the California Public Utilities Commission’s (CPUC) goals, with tasks spanning energy efficiency, energy storage, electric vehicles, financial and behavioral studies, and lifecycle analysis. CIEE’s Research Publications Access CIEE’s archive of reports and research papers in eScholarship. All Latest Featured Projects Active Electric Grid Oakland EcoBlock The goal of the EcoBlock research project is to explore strategies for resilience and the rapid, equitable, and affordable reduction of greenhouse gas emissions through urban block-scale retrofitting. All Projects Select Partners / Sponsors All Partners The problems in our energy sector today are some of the most challenging we have ever faced. I’m excited to be part of a team that exemplifies the interdisciplinary skills necessary to tackle these problems and work towards a decarbonized future with them. Phillippe Phanivong , Postdoctoral Scholar Team All Team Student Opportunities CIEE is a dedicated group of experts who define, conduct, and manage public-interest energy research. Based in the University of California, at CITRIS and the Banatao Institute , CIEE puts its experts and other leading researchers to work on energy challenges, yielding new ideas and technologies to meet California’s pace-setting goals. Contact David Brower Center 2150 Allston Way Suite 280 Berkeley, CA 94704 Directions info@uc-ciee.org Pages About Projects Student Opportunities Public Engagement Donate to CIEE Stay Informed Get the latest news in your inbox Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin © 2024 CIEE. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Accessibility California Relay Service 711 Terms of Use Nondiscrimination

