Name: Glenn Yiu

Description: I am a retinal specialist and clinician-scientist at UC Davis, where I combine clinical practice in vitreoretinal surgery with translational laboratory research studying the pathogenesis and treatment of age-related macular degeneration (AMD), diabetic retinopathy, and other retinal diseases. My research combines ocular imaging with genetic/molecular techniques to develop therapies and disease models of retinal diseases across mice, monkeys, and humans. Our research interests include:1) Optically-triggered nanoparticles for ocular drug delivery2) Optogenetic control of oxidative stress to model AMD3) Multimodal imaging of primate models of AMD4) CRISPR-based gene editing for neovascular retinal disease5) Automated screening and deep learning for detection of diabetic retinal diseasesResearch Interests:Control theory, dynamical systems, optimization, stochastic processes, cyber-physical systemsAs a retinal physician and clinician-scientist with expertise in advanced ocular imaging modalities, I am focused on developing and employing imaging technologies to improving health outcomes. Our research includes the identification of imaging biomarkers to understand disease pathophysiology and progression, employment of deep learning to detect and predict disease, and implementation of these technologies in real-world hospital settings. Our core translational laboratory also focuses on using ocular imaging not just as diagnostic tools, but using light delivery to control genes and drug delivery in the eye as theranostic systems. Together, our hope is to expand the use of non-invasive modalities in the modern era of precision medicine.

Title: Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology

Website: http://www.ucdmc.ucdavis.edu/eyecenter/yiulab/index.html

Email: gyiu@ucdavis.edu

Phone: nan

Address: nan

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/glenn-yiu/

Personal Website Text Short: Yiu Lab:Translational Retinal Research Laboratory | UC Davis Eye Center Skip to main content Eye Center News | Careers | Giving | UC Davis Health Toggle navigation Eye Center Home Research Optically-triggered Drug Delivery Optogenetic Disease Modeling CRISPR-based Gene Editing Imaging in Retinal Diseases Primate Research in Macular Degeneration Reading Center Lab Members Publications Eye Center Optically-triggered Drug Delivery Optogenetic Disease Modeling CRISPR-based Gene Editing Imaging in Retinal Disease Primate Research in Macular Degeneration Welcome to Yiu Lab Translational Retinal Research Laboratory Retinal diseases such as age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and diabetic retinopathy (DR) are among the major causes of vision loss and blindness in humans. Our laboratory employs a combination of retinal biology and ocular imaging technologies across various animal models including mice, monkeys, and human patients. By developing optically-activated drug delivery systems, optogenetic disease models, and gene editing strategies, we hope to better understand the pathophysiology of retinal disorders, and discover novel therapies for our patients. As a clinician-scientist, Dr. Yiu spends part of his time providing medical and surgical treatment for patients with retinal diseases, and the rest of his efforts leading our innovative translational research program. Our lab is a multidisciplinary group that collaborates with retinal biologists, biomedical engineers, chemists, veterinarians, and physicians across the UC Davis campus and at other institutions, utilizing ophthalmic imaging, nanotechnology, and genome engineering as our tools. Dr. Yiu has received research support from the National Eye Institute, the E Matilda Ziegler Foundation, Alcon Research Institute, and the ARVO Foundation. Research Optically-triggered Drug Delivery Optogenetic Disease Modeling CRISPR-based Gene Editing Imaging in Retinal Diseases Primate Research in Macular Degeneration Related Links UC Davis Center for Vision Science UC Davis Dept. of Cell Biology & Human Anatomy UC Davis School of Veterinary Medicine California National Primate Research Center Quick Links Physician Referrals to the Eye Center Our Team Optical Shop / Contact Lenses Directions MyUCDavisHealth Call for an Appointment Today 916-734-6602 Staff members are available to assist you Monday through Friday, 8 a.m.—5 p.m. Connect with Us Stay connected with what′s happening at UC Davis Eye Center. Facebook Twitter Eye Center Ernest E. Tschannen Eye Institute 4860 Y Street |  Sacramento, CA 95817  

		
		 |  
		Phone: 916-734-6602 © 2014 UC Regents. All Rights Reserved

		
			 | Legal | UC Davis

