Name: Glenn Ballard

Description: H. Glenn Ballard is co-founder and research director of the Lean Construction Institute (LCI), a non-profit organization dedicated to applying Lean theory, principles and techniques to create a new form of project management to design and build capital facilities. Dr. Ballard brings 25 years of construction industry expertise to his role and is a recognized expert in the area of project performance improvement.An accomplished educator, author and public speaker, Dr. Ballard is currently a member of the construction engineering and management program faculty at UC Berkeley and Stanford. His teaching focuses on improving, as opposed to controlling, project performance. His principle research interest is adapting lean production theory from manufacturing to construction management practice. Toward that end, he has developed a model for lean delivery of capital facility projects, the Lean Project Delivery System™. Dr. Ballard is also a founding member of the International Group of Lean Construction, which is dedicated to the development and application of production control concepts and techniques in the construction industry. He is frequently asked to share his research and experience with audiences at conferences and private organizations around the world.He has worked as a manager, trainer and consultant with a myriad of organizations ranging from construction and engineering firms to public utilities to international oil and gas manufacturers. These organizations include: Ford Motor Co., Brown & Root, Bechtel Corp., Jacobs Engineering, Petroleos de Venezuela, Pacific Gas & Electric, Caltrans and the Department of Defense.In 2016 he received  the PPI Technical Achievement Award to recognize his contributions and thought leadership in the area of Project Production Management. Dr. Ballard was recognized for his invaluable contribution in the delivery of capital projects through development of theory and application of operations management concepts, including the Last Planner approach.

Title: Associate Adjunct Professor

Website: http://www.ce.berkeley.edu/~ballard/

Email: gballard@leanconstruction.org

Phone: (510) 642-2016

Address: University of California, Berkeley 214 McLaughlin Hall Berkeley, California 94720-1712

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/dr-glenn-ballard/

Personal Website Text Short: Civil and Environmental Engineering Skip to main content Please enable javascript in your browser for full site features Log In Toggle navigation Navigation Menu About Overview Principles of Community Institutes Visitors Contact Grad Programs Construction Systems Energy, Civil Infrastructure and Climate Engineering and Project Management Environmental Engineering GeoSystems Engineering Structural Engineering, Mechanics and Materials Systems Engineering Transportation Engineering People Faculty Staff Alumni Advisory Council Undergraduate Prospective Undergraduates Admissions Diversity Curriculum Advising Certificate Undergrad Student Orgs Study Abroad Finances Careers Graduate Prospective Graduates Admissions Diversity Programs Degrees Grad Student Orgs Finances Careers Handbook Testing Facilities Structures Lab Equipment Lab Staff Resources For Students For Faculty For Staff For Visiting Scholars and Postdocs Diversity and Inclusion Libraries Computing Documentation Safety Documentation (CEE)² Program Page Not Found The page that you requested could not be found.  Please check the url and try again. Error 404 Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering College of Engineering UC Berkeley Give to CEE © 2024 UC Regents Accessibility Nondiscrimination Campus Privacy Office

