Name: Grace O’Connell

Description: Currently up to 30% of spinal fusion patients will need a revision surgery within 10 years of their first surgery. We are developing new computational models to advance spine surgery outcomes.Research interests:Soft tissue biomechanics. My group uses computational and experimental approaches to understand joint- and tissue-level mechanical behaviors of the soft tissues in the musculoskeletal system with aging and degeneration. Through CITRIS we have worked on developing functional patient-specific finger and hand prosthetics.

Title: Assistant Professor

Website: http://oconnell.berkeley.edu

Email: g.oconnell@berkeley.edu

Phone: nan

Address: nan

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/grace-oconnell/

Personal Website Text Short: Home - Berkeley Biomechanics Skip to main content Skip to primary navigation Header Search Widget Search this website O'Connell Lab Research Intervertebral disc tissue-level mechanics Intervertebral disc joint-level mechanics Computational modeling Tissue engineering Machine learning for in vivo soft tissue strain prediction 3D printing/biomimetic composites Machine learning- and sensor-based posture recognition People Publications Journal Articles Conference Proceedings Master’s Reports Undergraduate Independent Research News Blog Photos About Teaching Community Industry Funding Resources The O’Connell Lab is part of the Berkeley Biomechanics Laboratory (BBM), which is a core laboratory co-directed by Professors Tony Keaveny , Grace O’Connell, Lisa Pruitt , and Shawn Shadden . Keaveny, O’Connell, and Pruitt’s research focus on orthopaedic biomechanics, and Shadden’s research focuses on cardiovascular biomechanics. In O’Connell Lab, our primary focus is on soft tissue biomechanics and tissue engineering. We use both computational and experimental approaches to understand the structure-function relationship of soft tissues, currently including various intervertebral disc tissues and articular cartilage. Members of the O’Connell Lab, Fall 2019 Members of the O’Connell lab, Fall 2020 amid COVID-19 In addition to conducting biomechanics research, the members of O’Connell lab are also active in various outreach activities within the community that aim to address the underrepresentation of women and minorities in STEM, as well as environmental concerns. Some of the programs that the O’Connell lab members are involved in include Girls in Engineering (GiE) , Latino Association for Graduate Students in Engineering and Sciences (LAGSES) , Expanding Your Horizons (EYH) , Bay Area Scientists in Schools (BASIS) , the Watershed Project , Black Engineers and Scientists Student Association (BESSA) , and the Society of Women Engineers (SWE) . Principal Investigator Grace D. O’Connell, PhD (Aspiring undergraduate researchers interested in our work please fill in the Google form through this link first. Please contact Andre Montes at amontes at berkeley dot edu if you have further questions or concerns.) Berkeley Engineering UC Berkeley Privacy Accessibility Nondiscrimination © 2016–2024 UC Regents   | Log in

