Name: Graham E. Fogg

Description: Graham E. Fogg received a B.S. in Hydrology from the University of New Hampshire, an M.S. in Hydrology and Water Resources from the University of Arizona, and a Ph.D. in Geology from The University of Texas at Austin. For about 33 years he has been researching and teaching about subsurface water flow and pollutant transport processes and water resources sustainability. During 1978-1989 he was a research scientist at the Bureau of Economic Geology, The University of Texas at Austin where he investigated nuclear waste isolation in salt deposits, characterization of geologic heterogeneity and its role in flow and transport, coal (lignite) hydrogeology, and petroleum reservoir characterization. As a Professor of Hydrogeology in the Department of Land, Air and Water Resources and Department of Geology at the University of California, Davis, Graham and his students have pursued research on characterization and modeling of subsurface complexity, efficient and accurate numerical solution of the advection dispersion equation in heterogeneous systems, role of heterogeneity and diffusion in contaminant migration and remediation, groundwater quality sustainability, response of hydrologic systems to climate change, and hydrogeologic processes in ecosystems, among others. He teaches courses at UC Davis in groundwater hydrology, groundwater modeling, applied geostatistics, and water resources. He served as Chair of the Hydrologic Sciences Graduate Group from 1993 to 1998 and 2006-2011, and Chair of the Hydrology Program from 1998 to 2001 and 2010-2011. He was the 2002 Geological Society of America Birdsall-Dreiss Distinguished Lecturer. Dr. Fogg is a Fellow in the Geological Society of America and received the O.E. Meinzer Award for research excellence in hydrogeology in 2011.

Title: Professor of Hydrogeology

Website: nan

Email: gefogg@ucdavis.edu

Phone: nan

Address: University of California, Davis One Shields Avenue Davis, CA 95616

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/graham-e-fogg/

Personal Website Text Short: nan

