Name: Gretchen Casazza

Description: Research InterestsApplied research to improve the health and exercise performance of active individuals. Current research projects include optimizing exercise training and performance in competitive athletes, the effects of exercise on the treatment of depression, effects of estrogen on knee osteoarthritis, the effects of oral contraceptives on bone health and exercise performance, ACL injury prevention programs, sports nutrition and metabolism.

Title: Research Director for UCD Sports Medicine

Website: http://sportsmedicine.ucdavis.edu

Email: gretchen.casazza@ucdmc.ucdavis.edu

Phone: (916) 734-5632

Address: University of California, Davis College of Biological Sciences 2805 J Street, Suite 300 Sacramento, CA 95816

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/gretchen-casazza/

Personal Website Text Short: Sports Medicine | UC Davis Health search Search All UC Davis Health Main Menu add menu Main Menu close Main Menu Main Menu remove UC Davis Health Home Patients & Visitors Services & Specialties Health Care Professionals Schools & Programs Research News About UC Davis Health Giving Careers search Search × Search All UC Davis Health close Search All UC Davis Health Sports Medicine Show menu menu Menu Sports Medicine Sports Performance Health and Wellness Academic Programs Learning Center In the News Our Team Contact Us Sports Medicine | UC Davis Health The medicine of movement The UC Davis Sports Medicine program is a one-stop center for athletes and physically active people of all ages, goals and abilities. Sports Medicine UC Davis Sports Medicine is a multi-disciplinary collection of experts in the fields of orthopaedic surgery, physical medicine and rehabilitation, and sports performance and wellness. From major-leaguers and aspiring pros to“weekend warriors” and fitness buffs. We provide rapid access to comprehensive care to help you meet your health and performance goals and to get you back on track. Sports Medicine Services Sports Performance We have a host of assessments designed to help measure where you are, and figure out how to get where you want to be. When injuries do occur, our team of nationally renowned UC Davis sports medicine physicians, orthopaedic surgeons and therapists offer expert management of joint, muscle, bone and other problems. Sports Performance Services Health and Wellness We offer a wide range of assessments to help you evaluate your current level of fitness, determine an effective course of action, and monitor your improvement. Our team can help enhance athletic performance and physical fitness, prevent acute and chronic injuries and extend athletic careers. Health and Wellness Services Our specialties Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Care for patients with a wide array of injuries . Sports and Musculoskeletal Clinic Orthopaedic Surgery The UC Davis Department of Orthopaedic Surgery. Orthopaedic Sports Medicine Foot and Ankle Foot and Ankle Clinic provides diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of injuries. Foot and Ankle Service Sports Performance Get the most out of your hard work with our Sports Performance program. Sports Performance Program Health and Wellness We can help guide you in the right direction. Health and Wellness Services Sports Nutrition Proper nutrition is the missing link to maximizing potential. Sports Nutrition Resources Team physicians to the pros UC Davis physicians have provided care or consultation for Olympic-level athletes and teams, professional sports and college athletics programs such as USA Gymnastics, Sac Republic FC and UC Davis Aggies . From surgery and rehabilitation to fitness testing and injury prevention we provide the same high standard of care to players and athletes of all levels. Meet the sports medicine team Make an appointment 916-734-6805 UC Davis Sports Medicine Make a gift 3301 C Street, Suite 1600 Sacramento, CA 95816 Phone: 916-734-6805 Current patients may request an appointment through MyUCDavisHealth . New patients can contact their primary care provider for a referral. If you are able to self-refer, call us to make an appointment. Medical Center Children’s Hospital Rehabilitation Hospital Neighborhood clinics School of Medicine Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing Medical Group ABOUT UC DAVIS HEALTH About Us Contact Us Social Media Maps and Directions FOR PATIENTS MyUCDavisHealth Find a Provider or Faculty Clinic Locations Clinical Trials Referring Physicians Patient Financial Assistance Price Transparency COVID-19 Resources WE ARE PART OF UC Davis University of California Health University of California © 2024 UC Regents. All Rights Reserved  | Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy 4301 X St., Sacramento, CA 95817

