Name: Heather Young

Description: A nurse leader, educator, scientist and nationally recognized expert in gerontological nursing and rural health care, Heather M. Young is a professor and dean emerita for the Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing at UC Davis. She is currently on sabbatical after serving a decade as founding dean, from 2008 to 2018. She returns to the office in August 2019.Dr. Young’s research and clinical interest is the promotion of healthy aging with a particular focus on the interface between family and formal health-care systems. She played an instrumental role in shaping long-term care policies in Washington state and beyond through her research. In addition, she conducted several longitudinal studies of family caregiving in the context of cognitive decline.Her previous research focused on medication management and safety in rural, assisted-living settings, technological approaches to promoting medication safety in rural hospitals. Her current research includes the use of telehealth and community-based strategies to promote health for rural older adults. Dr. Young also collaborates on a number of interdisciplinary projects, including the Initiative for Wireless Health and Wellness at UC Davis, a project involving faculty from nursing, medicine, engineering and the Center for Information Technology Research for the Interest of Society (CITRIS). She is co-director of the Latino Aging Research Resource Center.She serves at both the national and state levels in supporting the implementation of the recommenda¬tions of the landmark Institute of Medicine report, “The Future of Nursing: Leading Change, Advancing Health.” She serves on the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation’s Strategic Advisory Committee that guides the national campaign as well as the California Action Coalition executive committee, which leads the statewide activities.Dr. Young is a UC Davis alumna, graduating in 1981 with a bachelor’s degree in dietetics. She later earned an associate degree in nursing from Sacramento City College and a Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree from Southern Oregon State College. She then went on to the University of Washington, where she earned a Master of Science in Nursing degree with a specialty in gerontology and a doctorate in nursing science.In addition to her extensive academic and research background, Dr. Young also has experience as a hospital nurse practicing in critical care and as a nurse practitioner in community-based long-term care. Previously, Dr. Young directed the John A. Hartford Center for Geriatric Nursing Excellence at Oregon Health and Science University and, prior to that, Dr. Young held a joint appointment on faculty at the University Of Washington School Of Nursing and as the chief operations officer for a retirement community company.

Title: Faculty Director, Health

Website: http://www.ucdmc.ucdavis.edu/leadership/bios/young_bio.html

Email: Heather.Young@ucdmc.ucdavis.edu

Phone: (916) 734-2145

Address: UC Davis Medical Center
4610 X Street, Suite 4202
Sacramento, CA 95817

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/dr-heather-young/

Personal Website Text Short: Page Not Found search Search All UC Davis Health Main Menu add menu Main Menu close Main Menu Main Menu remove UC Davis Health Home Patients & Visitors Services & Specialties Health Care Professionals Schools & Programs Research News About UC Davis Health Giving Careers search Search × Search All UC Davis Health close Search All UC Davis Health how_to_reg MyUCDavisHealth Login person_search Find a Provider content_paste_go Refer a Patient location_on Maps and Locations video_camera_front Telehealth Services biotech Search Clinical Trials work Careers volunteer_activism Make a Gift call Contact Us Show menu menu Menu Patients & Visitors chevron_right chevron_left Back Patients & Visitors arrow_forward Personalized, compassionate care and the expertise of the region's only academic health center. Conditions and Treatments Maps, Locations and Parking Appointments and Referrals About Patient Care Services & Specialties chevron_right chevron_left Back Services & Specialties arrow_forward World-class care and doctors for both routine and complex health care challenges. Primary Care Specialty Care A-Z Care Centers Telehealth Services Find a Provider Health Care Professionals chevron_right chevron_left Back Health Care Professionals arrow_forward We train the health care providers of tomorrow, today, offering professionals the knowledge, skills and abilities to deliver exemplary care. Refer a Patient Featured Specialties Find a Provider or Faculty Residency Programs and Fellowships Clinical Studies Career Opportunities Professional Development Clinical News Schools & Programs chevron_right chevron_left Back Schools & Programs arrow_forward UC Davis schools and education programs offer the highest quality training, skills and values to lead change and improve health for all. UC Davis School of Medicine arrow_forward Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing at UC Davis arrow_forward Additional Education Programs and Training arrow_forward Research chevron_right chevron_left Back Research arrow_forward We believe improving health for all is possible. So, our collaborative research includes clinical, translational and basic science studies. Research Programs Search Clinical Trials Clinical Research News Participate in Clinical Trials arrow_forward News chevron_right chevron_left Back News arrow_forward News, blogs and publications from UC Davis Health with the latest health care, patient, faculty, leadership, medical, science and research news and innovations. UC Davis Health Responds Noticias en Español Feature Stories Blogs and Podcasts Publications Health Highlights Newsletter Videos Social Media For Journalists Public Reporting About Us chevron_right chevron_left Back About UC Davis Health chevron_right chevron_left Back About UC Davis Health arrow_forward Office of the Vice Chancellor Executive Leadership Awards and Honors Ventures Office Clinical Strategic Plan Upcoming Events Points of Distinction Facts and Figures 150th Anniversary Giving to UC Davis Health Community Engagement chevron_right chevron_left Back Community Engagement Highlights arrow_forward Our Commitment to the Underserved Community Health Needs Assessment (CHNA) CHNA Implementation Strategy Government and Community Relations Principles of Community Health Sciences Development Public Affairs and Marketing Community Advisory Board Careers chevron_right chevron_left Back All UC Davis Health Staff Job Opportunities arrow_forward Primary Care Physicians Recruitment Nurse Recruitment at UC Davis Health Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing Nursing Volunteer Clinical Faculty School of Medicine Faculty Recruitment School of Medicine Residency and Fellowship Programs Careers at UC Davis Campus Careers at the University of California Exceptional Employment Quick Links how_to_reg MyUCDavisHealth Login person_search Find a Provider content_paste_go Refer a Patient location_on Maps and Locations video_camera_front Telehealth Services biotech Search Clinical Trials work Careers volunteer_activism Make a Gift call Contact Us Page Not Found Page Not Found The Web page you are attempting to view is not available. Please confirm that you have the correct address and spelling of the page you were seeking. To report the issue, send us an email at hs-webmaster@ucdavis.edu with the subject line "Web Page Not Found." Include information on how you got to this page, including the address you typed, so we can address the problem. Medical Center Children’s Hospital Rehabilitation Hospital Neighborhood clinics School of Medicine Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing Medical Group ABOUT UC DAVIS HEALTH About Us Contact Us Social Media Maps and Directions FOR PATIENTS MyUCDavisHealth Find a Provider or Faculty Clinic Locations Clinical Trials Referring Physicians Patient Financial Assistance Price Transparency COVID-19 Resources WE ARE PART OF UC Davis University of California Health University of California © 2024 UC Regents. All Rights Reserved  | Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy 4301 X St., Sacramento, CA 95817

