Name: Herbert Lee

Description: Research AreasBayesian statistics, computer simulation experiments, spatial statistics, inverse problems, model selection and model averaging, nonparametric regression, neural networks, classification and clustering.Lee earned a B.S. in mathematics from Yale University and M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in statistics from Carnegie Mellon University. Before coming to UCSC he was a visiting assistant professor at Duke University.

Title: Professor

Website: http://users.soe.ucsc.edu/~herbie/

Email: herbie@soe.ucsc.edu

Phone: (831) 459-1655

Address: University of California, Santa Cruz
Baskin School of Engineering
1156 High St Mail Stop SOE2
Santa Cruz, CA 95064

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-herbert-lee/

Personal Website Text Short: Herbie Lee Herbie Lee Vice Provost for Academic Affairs Professor Department of Statistics , Jack Baskin School of Engineering , University of California, Santa Cruz Faculty office: 537A Baskin Engineering, phone: 831-459-1655 (email is preferred) Faculty mailing address:   UC Santa Cruz, School of Engineering (MS: SOE2), 1156 High
  Street, Santa Cruz, CA 95064 Administrative office: Kerr Hall 215, phone: 831-459-1349 Administrative mailing address:  UC Santa Cruz, Office of the Chancellor, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, CA 95064 My books: Bayesian
Optimization with Application to Computer Experiments .  Published
by Springer, this short book provides an introduction to black-box
derivative-free optimization in the context of computer simulation 
experiments. Multiscale
Modeling: A Bayesian Perspective .  Published by Springer, this
book reviews a variety of methods for Bayesian modeling and
statistical computation in multiscale settings. Bayesian Nonparametrics
via Neural Networks .  Published by SIAM, in the SIAM-ASA series on
statistics and applied probability, the goal of this book is to treat
neural networks as a statistical model, not just a black box. errata Teaching Research and Publication List Current and Graduated Students Statistical Society Links Educational Background UCSC Arboretum You can email me at herbie at ucsc.edu .

