Name: Holli DeVon

Description: My area of interest is ischemic heart disease. The primary focus of my program of research has been the influence of gender and symptoms during acute coronary syndromes (ACS). I developed an integrative symptoms conceptual model and the ACS Symptom Checklist used in a number of international studies. Our research team has used an integrated, biobehavioral approach to advance symptom science in heart disease by studying genetic, inflammatory, and behavioral aspects of ischemic heart disease. An additional interest has been individuals that are vulnerable to poor health outcomes as a result of age, race/ethnicity, and/or low social status. I am also interested in research methods and measurement and have taught and published in this area.My research has revealed sex and age differences in the symptoms of ACS that leave women at risk for delay in seeking treatment for symptoms, delay in diagnostic testing, and delayed treatment. I am privileged to have mentored many pre and post-doctoral scholars in cardiovascular disease in such areas as coronary heart disease, heart failure, atrial fibrillation, stroke, and cardiovascular risk factors. Many of these scholars have received NRSA, K01, K23, and R21 awards from NIH. I welcome new collaborative opportunities.Currently, I am working with research partners in the areas of acupuncture for stable angina, atrial fibrillation, stroke symptoms, and cardiac rehabilitation. I serve as chair-elect of the Leadership Council for the Council for the Advancement of Nursing Science (CANS) and chair of the CANS Science Committee. Within the College of Nursing I serve as faculty chairperson, mentoring program facilitator, and director of the cardiopulmonary research interest group.

Title: Professor

Website: nan

Email: hdevon1@uic.edu

Phone: 312-413-5362

Address: 845 S. Damen Ave., M/C 802
Rm. 748
Chicago, IL 60612

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/holli-devon/

Personal Website Text Short: nan

