Name: Iman Soltani

Description: Iman Soltani is an assistant professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering at the University of California, Davis. His research lies at the interface of artificial intelligence (AI), controls and instrumentation focusing on applications in medicine, autonomous driving and manufacturing automation. Prior to joining UC Davis, he worked at the Ford Greenfield Labs in Palo Alto, where he founded and led the advanced automation laboratory.Soltani received his Ph.D. and postdoctoral training at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). He has more than 10 patents and 30 journal and conference publications. His research has been featured in the Boston Globe, Elsevier Materials Today, ScienceDaily and MIT News. He has received multiple academic and industry awards for his research, including MIT’s Carl G. Sontheimer Prize and National Instrument’s Engineering Impact Award.Research interests: deep learning, automation, robotics, medical devices, instrumentation, precision mechatronics.

Title: Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering

Website: https://soltanilab.engineering.ucdavis.edu/

Email: isoltani@ucdavis.edu

Phone: nan

Address: University of California Davis

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/iman-soltani/

Personal Website Text Short: Soltani Laboratory for AI, Robotics and Automation (LARA) Skip to main content Menu Soltani Laboratory for AI, Robotics and Automation (LARA) Soltani Laboratory for AI, Robotics and Automation (LARA) Open Search Search Quick Links + UC Davis Main navigation (extended config) Home News Blog Events Archived Events People Galleries Openings Laboratory for AI, Robotics and Automation Open Positions Deep Bayesian-Assisted Keypoint Detection for Pose Estimation in Assembly Automation August 21, 2023 CVPR 2023 April 03, 2023 NeurIPS 2022 November 13, 2022 LARA Seminar Series February 23, 2022 Subscribe to Recent Articles Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at UCD PI page on MAE Contact us Autonomous Driving Shaping the Future of Transportation See More Manufacturing Automation Building Industry 4.0 See More Industrial Diagnosis Reducing Cost and Preventing Catastrophic Failures See More Robotics for the Nano-Scale Visualizing and Manipulating the Matter at the Nano-Scale See More Health Care Improving the Standard of Care See More Soltani Laboratory for AI, Robotics and Automation (LARA) University of California, Davis , One Shields Avenue, Davis, CA 95616 | 530-752-1011 Questions or comments? Privacy & Accessibility Principles of Community University of California Sitemap Last update: May 9, 2024 Copyright © The Regents of the University of California, Davis campus. All rights reserved. This site is officially grown in SiteFarm .

