Name: James Marcin

Description: Dr. James P. Marcin is professor and vice chair for research in the Department of Pediatrics at the UC Davis School of Medicine and director of the Center for Health and Technology at UC Davis Health.Marcin completed medical school at the UC San Diego School of Medicine; his pediatric residency at the University of California, San Francisco; and a pediatric critical care fellowship at Children’s National Medical Center in Washington, D.C.In addition to his clinical work in the pediatric intensive care unit (ICU), Marcin conducts research and advocacy on issues related to access and quality of care, particularly as it relates to telehealth and children living in underserved and under-resourced communities. Marcin serves on several national committees, including the American Association of Medical Colleges (AAMC) Telehealth Advisory Committee, the American Academy of Pediatrics Section on Telehealth Care, and the Emergency Medical Services for Children Innovation and Improvement Center Telehealth Advisory Council. Marcin also conducts research to evaluate how telehealth can improve measures of quality of care, access to care, patient-centered care and costs of care with support from the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), and the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI).

Title: Co-Director, CITRIS Health

Website: https://health.ucdavis.edu/children/team/516/james-marcin---pediatric-critical-care-sacramento/

Email: jpmarcin@ucdavis.edu

Phone: (800) 823-4543

Address: UC Davis Children's Hospital 2315 Stockton Blvd. Sacramento, CA 95617

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/james-marcin/

Personal Website Text Short: James Paul Marcin, M.D., M.P.H. for UC Davis Health search Search All UC Davis Health Main Menu add menu Main Menu close Main Menu Main Menu remove UC Davis Health Home Patients & Visitors Services & Specialties Health Care Professionals Schools & Programs Research News About UC Davis Health Giving Careers search Search × Search All UC Davis Health close Search All UC Davis Health how_to_reg MyUCDavisHealth volunteer_activism Make a Donation location_on Locations person_search Find a Pediatrician Show menu menu Menu Pediatric Services chevron_right chevron_left Back Pediatric Services arrow_forward Nationally ranked UC Davis Children’s Hospital offers families the highest level of care for virtually every pediatric health condition. Specialty Care Pharmacy Services Support Services Patient Education A-Z Patients & Families chevron_right chevron_left Back Patients & Families arrow_forward Helping you and your child receive extraordinary care is priority one. General Information Find a Pediatrician or Specialist Preparing for Your Child’s Stay Family and Visitor Information Patient Education A to Z arrow_forward Helpful guides for parents and caregivers for pediatric conditions, procedures and care at home. Visiting the Children’s Hospital chevron_right chevron_left Back Visiting the Children’s Hospital arrow_forward Find information about visiting UC Davis Children’s Hospital. Preparing for Your Child’s Stay Family and Visitor Information Important Phone Numbers Visitor Guidelines Family Video Visits Directions and Parking Appointments & Referrals Our Team chevron_right chevron_left Back Our Team Your Child’s Patient Care Team Pediatricians by Specialty or Service Why Choose Us News Quick Links how_to_reg MyUCDavisHealth volunteer_activism Make a Donation location_on Locations person_search Find a Pediatrician James Paul Marcin, M.D., M.P.H. for UC Davis Health UC Davis Health Children’s Hospital Our Team James Paul Marcin James Paul Marcin, M.D., M.P.H. Vice Chair for Pediatric Clinical Research Director, UC Davis Center for Health and Technology Professor, Department of Pediatrics Print PDF Save contact To see if James Paul Marcin is accepting new patients, or for assistance finding a UC Davis doctor, please call 800-2-UCDAVIS (800-282-3284) . Reviews Specialties Pediatric Critical Care Department Pediatrics Locations and Contact UC Davis Children's Hospital UC Davis Children's Hospital 2315 Stockton Blvd. Sacramento, CA 95817 Get Directions Additional Numbers Phone 916-734-4726 Physician Referrals 800-4-UCDAVIS (800-482-3284) Dropdown About Education Honors Publications Philosophy of Care Caring for seriously ill children and supporting families are my passion. I do all that I can to treat every ill child how I would want my own children cared for, and consider it a privilege and honor to be part of the incredible team at our Children’s Hospital. Clinical Interests Dr. James Marcin practices in the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit at the UC Davis Children’s Hospital. Dr. Marcin is also the Director of the Center for Health and Technology and leads the telemedicine program. Dr. Marcin is particularly interested in how telemedicine consultations can help in the care of seriously ill pediatric patients in remote hospitals, emergency departments and inpatient wards. Research/Academic Interests Dr. James Marcin completed his pediatric critical care fellowship at the Children’s National Medical Center in Washington D.C. He also completed a masters degree in public health at the George Washington University. Dr. Marcin conducts research on a variety of public health issues in pediatric emergency and critical care medicine, including quality of care, severity of illness measures and telemedicine. His recent research has focused on how telemedicine can be used to address disparities in access to pediatric subspecialty care, improve the patient-centeredness of care, increase quality of care, and reduce overall healthcare costs. He currently is the director of the largest pediatric tele-emergency network in the country. Division Pediatric Critical Care Center/Program Affiliation Center for Health and Technology Center for Healthcare Policy and Research Public Health Sciences UC Davis Children's Hospital Undergraduate School B.S., UC San Diego, La Jolla CA 1988 Medical School M.D., UC San Diego School of Medicine, La Jolla CA 1992 Other School M.P.H., Biostatistics, George Washington University, Washington DC 1998 Residency Pediatrics, UC San Francisco, San Francisco CA 1992-1995 Fellowship Critical Care, Children's National Medical Center, George Washington University, Washington DC 1995-1998 Fulbright Scholar, Royal College of Surgeons Ireland (RCSI), 2023 AAMC Telehealth Equity Catalyst (TEC) Award - Addressing Healthcare Inequities Using Virtual Family-Centered Rounds in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (Team Award), 2022 SEARCH 2021 1st Place JUDGE’S AWARD Best Abstract: “Implementing Telehealth and Image Exchange to Create a Virtual Pediatric Trauma Center”, 2021 “Golden Apple” Faculty Teaching Award - awarded by the graduating pediatric residents, 2021 Best Abstract - Society for Education and the Advancement of Research in Connected Health (SEARCH), San Diego, October, 2018 Yoo BK, Yang NH, Hoffman K, Sasaki T, Haynes SC, Mouzoon J, Marcin JP. Economic Evaluation of Telemedicine Consultations to Reduce Unnecessary Neonatal Care Transfers. J Pediatr. 2022 May;244:58-63.e1. doi:10.1016/j.jpeds.2021.11.076. Epub 2022 Jan 21. PMID:35074308. Kothari SY, Haynes SC, Sigal I, Magana JN, Ruttan T, Kuppermann N, Horeczko T, Ludwig L, Karsteadt L, Chapman W, Pinette V, Marcin JP. Resources for Improving Pediatric Readiness and Quality of Care in Rural Communities and Emergency Departments. Pediatr Emerg Care . 2022 Mar 1;38(3):e1069-e1074. doi:10.1097/PEC.0000000000002658. PMID:35226633. Davidson L, Haynes SC, Favila-Meza A, Hoch JS, Tancredi DJ, Bares AD, Mouzoon J, Marcin JP. Parent Experience and Cost Savings Associated With a Novel Tele-physiatry Program for Children Living in Rural and Underserved Communities. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2022 Jan;103(1):8-13. doi:10.1016/j.apmr.2021.07.807. Epub 2021 Aug 21. PMID:34425088. Reviews About Our Survey UC Davis Children’s Hospital Make a Gift 4301 X St. Sacramento, CA 95817 Main Contact Phone: 1-800-UCD-4-KIDS 24-Hour Hospital Operator: 916-734-2011 Quick links Find a pediatric specialty or service Physicians referrals, transfers and consults Patient appointments and referrals Family and visitor information Directions and parking Contact us Medical Center Children’s Hospital Rehabilitation Hospital Neighborhood clinics School of Medicine Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing Medical Group ABOUT UC DAVIS HEALTH About Us Contact Us Social Media Maps and Directions FOR PATIENTS MyUCDavisHealth Find a Provider or Faculty Clinic Locations Clinical Trials Referring Physicians Patient Financial Assistance Price Transparency COVID-19 Resources WE ARE PART OF UC Davis University of California Health University of California © 2024 UC Regents. All Rights Reserved  | Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy 4301 X St., Sacramento, CA 95817

