Name: James Bushnell

Description: James Bushnell is Research Director at the University of California Energy Institute and a lecturer at U.C. Berkeley’s Haas School of Business. He received a Ph.D. in Operations Research from U.C. Berkeley in 1993. He has written extensively on the organization and competitiveness of electricity markets. Dr. Bushnell has served as a member of the Market Monitoring Committee of the California Power Exchange and is currently a member of the Market Surveillance Committee of the California ISO.

Title: Associate Professor

Website: http://economics.ucdavis.edu/people/bushnell/site

Email: jbbushnell@ucdvais.edu

Phone: (530) 752-3129

Address: Dept. of Economics University of California, Davis One Shields Ave. Davis, CA 95616

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-james-bushnell/

Personal Website Text Short: James Bushnell | Economics Skip to main content Menu Economics Open Search Search Quick Links + UC Davis Main navigation (extended config) Home About Undergraduate Major in Economics Specialization Tracks Minor in Economics Data Analytics Focused Courseworks Frequently Asked Questions Career Paths for Economics Majors Why Study Economics? Graduate First-Year Students Prospective Students Admission Information Fees and Financial Aid Domestic Applicants International Applicants Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Program General Questions Qualifications Application Fees Deadlines Application Submission Applicants From Other Nations Financial Aid Current Graduate Students Graduate Handbooks Grad Handbook 2019-2020 Grad Handbook 2020-2021 Grad Handbook 2021-2022 Beaumont Award Economist Job Openings Office of Graduate Studies Mentoring Guidelines Past Preliminary Exams Preliminary Exams for Macro and Micro Economics Preliminary Exams by Field Graduate Student Placements Recent Coauthored Research with Faculty UCD Econ Ph.D. Alumni Conference Seminars and Events Upcoming Seminars an Events Seminar Calendar Past Seminars and Events People Academic Senate Faculty Instructors Faculty Research Areas Staff Graduate Students Emeriti On the Job Market Courses Course Catalog Featured Courses Tentative Schedules ECN 190 Topics Research Affiliated Research Centers Recent Research by Faculty Subspecialties Within Economics Working Papers News Faculty Spotlights Alumni Give James Bushnell Breadcrumb Home People James Bushnell Position Title Professor 530-752-3129 jbbushnell@ucdavis.edu http://bushnell.ucdavis.edu 1126 SSH 1 Shields Avenue,
  Davis CA 95616 Bio Education Ph.D., Industrial Engineering and Operations Research, University of California, Berkeley, 1993 M.S., Operations Research, University of California, Berkeley, 1990 B.S., Industrial Engineering, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 1989 About James Bushnell is a professor in the Department of Economics at the University of California, Davis, and a Research Associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research. Prior to joining UC Davis, he spent 15 years as the Research Director of the University of California Energy Institute in Berkeley, and two years as the Cargill Chair in Energy Economics at Iowa State University. Professor Bushnell has long been actively involved in energy and environmental policy. Since 2002, he has served as a member of the Market Surveillance Committee (MSC) of the California Independent System Operator (CAISO). He has also advised the California Air Resources Board on emissions trading and other climate policies. Research Focus Professor Bushnell’s research focuses on energy and environmental economics, industrial organization and regulation, and energy policy. Publications "Do Two Electricity Pricing Wrongs Make a Right? Cost Recovery, Externalities, and Efficiency"(with Severin Borenstein). American Economic Journal: Economic Policy . Forthcoming. “Food vs. Fuel? The impact of Oil-by-Rail on Agricultural Prices.” (with Jonathan Hughes and Aaron Smith). Journal of the Association of Environmental and Resource Economics . Vol. 8, No. 4: 563-592. January 2022. “Low Energy: Estimating Electric Vehicle Electricity Use.” (with Fiona Burlig, David Rapson, and Catherine Wolfram). American Economics Association Papers and Proceedings , Volume 111, Issue 2, May 2021. “Expecting the Unexpected: Environmental Policy Choice and Emissions Market Design.” (with Severin Borenstein, Frank Wolak, and Matt Zaragoza-Watkins). American Economic Review. Vol 109, no. 11: 3953-77. November 2019. Bushnell, J., E. Mansur, and C. Saravia. "Vertical Arrangements, Market Structure, and Competition: An Analysis of U.S. Restructured Electricity Markets." American Economic Review 98.1 (March 2008). Teaching James Bushnell teaches courses in intermediate microeconomics, energy economics and graduate industrial organization. Tags Environmental and Energy Economics Industrial Organization Department of Economics University of California, Davis 1118 Social Science and Humanities Building 1 Shields Avenue Davis, CA 95616 eheadvisingcenter@ucdavis.edu Follow Us Economic Undergraduate Advising Center 2216 Social Science and Humanities Building 530-752-9241 eheadvisingcenter@ucdavis.edu Admin Links Log In Webmaster University of California, Davis , One Shields Avenue, Davis, CA 95616 | 530-752-1011 Privacy & Accessibility Principles of Community University of California Sitemap Last update: February 28, 2023 Copyright © The Regents of the University of California, Davis campus. All rights reserved. This site is officially grown in SiteFarm .

