Name: James Holston

Description: James Holston’s current research examines the worldwide insurgence of democratic citizenships in the context of global urbanization. Three considerations frame this work: those of theme, method, and critique.The first analyzes insurgent citizenship movements in relation to projects of state that aim to produce the nation and manage the social by imposing a future embodied in plans – projects of city planning, development, law, and government. By insurgent, I refer to practices through which people problematize such projects – practices that work against established conditions of inequality and provide alternatives for including citizens and distributing rights. My research focuses especially on the generation of insurgent citizenship among the urban working classes in Brazil, as they confront problems of urbanization, land tenure, government regulation, state violence, and misrule of law. My publications consider the unsettling of national and local citizenship this insurgence produces. They emphasize, however, that as dominant regimes of rule destabilize, the insurgent remains entangled with the entrenched. The result is a process of democratization in which new kinds of citizens arise to expand democracy and new forms of violence, illegality, and exclusion simultaneously erode it.The methodological concerns of my research combine ethnography and history to study the present. I rely on the empirical depth and precision of ethnographic analysis to engage the problems that mobilize people in the places I work: in the poor peripheries and elite neighborhoods of São Paulo, in a new religion on the outskirts of Brasília, in Latino neighborhoods in California. This mapping has always suggested to me that a particular problem encountered in the field takes on a specific expression because its historical formulation continues to structure its present possibilities. For example, the use of law to legalize illegal land seizures in the contemporary peripheries of São Paulo makes sense only in relation to the centuries of land occupation in Brazil that made illegal settlement the norm of residence. Contemporary citizenships are typically volatile mixtures of insurgent and entrenched elements because the dominant historical regimes of citizenship both produce and limit possible counter-formulations. I pursue historical analysis in ethnography to investigate these articulations.Anthropology’s engagement of ethnography and history also suggests a strategy for critical research. By that, I mean problematizing thoughts and actions that rest on taken-for-granted, unexamined assumptions and demonstrating the consequences that both the unexamination of the familiar and its defamiliarization have for the construction of the present. Thus my research aims to debunk a number of professional practices and presuppositions: to expose modes of urban planning that segregate; to doubt distinctions between the illegal and the legal that ground law systems and the constitution of political powers; to demonstrate how development policies predictably promote conflict because they set the terms by which encroachments are reliably legalized; to argue that political definitions alone are inadequate to evaluate democracy and that political democracies do not necessary produce a democratic rule of law. I encourage collaborative work among students with the aim of building a corpus of research both to ground such critique and to indicate professional practices that foster greater citizen participation and social justice.Representative PublicationsBooks2008. Insurgent Citizenship: Disjunctions of Democracy and Modernity in Brazil. Princeton: Princeton University Press.1999. Cities and Citizenship, edited by James Holston. Durham: Duke University Press.1989. The Modernist City: An Anthropological Critique of Brasília. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.Articles2006. Citizenship in disjunctive democracies. In Citizenship in Latin America, 75-94. Joseph S. Tulchin and Meg Ruthenburg, editors. Boulder: Lynne Reinner.2005. (and Teresa P. R. Caldeira). State and urban space in Brazil: from modernist planning to democratic interventions. In Global Anthropology: Technology, Governmentality, Ethics, 393-416. Aihwa Ong and Stephen J. Collier, editors. London: Blackwell.2001. Urban citizenship and globalization. In Global City-Regions, 325-348. Allen J. Scott, editor. New York: Oxford University Press.1999. (and Teresa P. R. Caldeira). Democracy and violence in Brazil. Comparative Studies in Society and History 41(4): 691-729.1999. Alternative modernities: statecraft and religious imagination in the Valley of the Dawn. American Ethnologist 26(3): 605-6311995. Spaces of insurgent citizenship. Planning Theory 13: 35-51.1991. Autoconstruction in working-class Brazil. Cultural Anthropology 6(4): 447-465.1991. The misrule of law: land and usurpation in Brazil. Comparative Studies in Society and History 33(4): 695-725.

Title: Professor of Sociocultural Anthropology

Website: https://anthropology.berkeley.edu/james-holston

Email: jholston@berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 643-1688

Address: University of California, Berkeley 303 Kroeber Hall Berkeley, Ca 94720-3710

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/james-holston-2/

Personal Website Text Short: James Holston | Anthropology Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation Anthropology Search Terms Submit Search About History Why Anthropology? Contact Anthropology Community Values Undergraduate Program About the Major Student Learning Goals Current Students Prospective Students Anthropology Undergraduate Association Student Resources Senior Honor Thesis Democratic Education at Cal (DeCal) Courses Graduate Program Anthropology PhD Medical Anthropology Joint PhD (With UCSF) Masters and Designated Emphasis in Folklore Teaching Appointments and Funding Opportunities Information for Prospective Students Mentorship Guidelines Career Resources for Grad Students Student Concerns / Complaints People Staff Faculty  A-J Faculty  K-Z Emeriti Faculty Affiliated Faculty A-M Affiliated Faculty N-Z Graduate Students A-C Graduate Students C-E Graduate Students E-H Graduate Students H-M Graduate Students M-R Graduate Students R-T Graduate Students T-Z Folklore Graduate Students Visiting Scholars and Post Docs Visiting Faculty Research Anthropology Resources Faculty Labs Related Research Centers News & Events Commencement 2024 Department Awards News Recent Faculty Publications Archived Faculty Interviews Archived Letter's From Chair Events Calendar Courses Give to Cal Anthro Secondary navigation Donate Contact FAQ Home James Holston James Holston Contact OFFICE: 303 Anthropology and Art Practice Building (Formerly Known As Kroeber Hall) E-MAIL: jholston@berkeley.edu PHONE: 510-642-3392 OFFICE HOURS Sign-up for office hours at this link: https://www.wejoinin.com/jholston@berkeley.edu Special Interests Citizenship; democracy; political theory; cities and urban studies; development of software platforms for democratic assembly; Brazil, the Americas, Denmark; Director of the Social Apps Lab . Additional Links Topics Citizenship topic page Information and Data Technologies topic page Law and Society topic page Political Anthropology topic page Race and Ethnicity topic page Sociocultural Anthropology topic page See jamesholston.com for more on research, access to publications, and CV. Research My current research focuses on (1) new forms and problems of democratic association; (2) community-based entomology for arboviral disease prevention, using the assembly-based social and software platform DengueChat; (3) insurgent cities and urban citizenships; (4) associational life in Danish cities in the wake of Covid-19; and (5) the development of application software at the Social Apps Lab. Profile I am a political anthropologist. My research investigates the city as a strategic site for the emergence and erosion of citizenship, popular sovereignty, and democracy. I have conducted fieldwork projects in Brazil, Denmark, Nicaragua, and the United States. My current work focuses on new forms of direct democracy and the development of application software for different kinds of democratic assembly. My books, research articles, and software development engage these issues as an anthropology of critique and experiment. My books include The Modernist City: An Anthropological Critique of Brasília, Cities and Citizenship, and Insurgent Citizenship: Disjunctions of Democracy and Modernity in Brazil. A recent research article from 2019 concerns metropolitan rebellions and the politics of commoning the city. Another in 2021 presents the results of a pilot study I conducted with a team of researchers and residents in Managua. It implemented a social and software platform for citizen entomology that mobilizes community-based mosquito control to prevent dengue, chikungunya, and Zika. I am also the founding director of the Social Apps Lab at UC Berkeley. At the Lab, I lead the development of software platforms for mobile and web-based applications that address the terms and scales of democratic assembly, civic action, and urban knowledge. My software projects include AppCivist.org and DengueChat.org which engage people in assembly-based direct democracy. Various instances concern participatory budgeting (Vallejo, CA), master planning (São Paulo), and community-based arbovirus vector control (Managua). Representative Publications See jamesholston.com/articles for links to publications. Articles 2021 James Holston, Harold Suazo, Eva Harris, and Josefina Coloma. DengueChat: a social and software platform for community-based arbovirus vector control. American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene (forthcoming). 2019 Metropolitan rebellions and the politics of commoning the city. Anthropology Theory 19(1): 120-142 . 2018 Art practice and citizenship at Park Lek, Sundbyberg. In Public Enquiries, 99-110. Mick Wilson, Helena Selder, Somewhere and Giorgiana Zachia, editors. London: Black Dog Press. 2016 Rodrigo Ochigame and James Holston. Filtering dissent: social media and land struggles in Brazil. New Left Review 99: 85-108. 2016 James Holston, Valérie Issarny, and Cristhian Parra. Engineering software assemblies for participatory democracy: the participatory budgeting use case. In Proceedings of the 38th International Conference on Software Engineering, Companion (ICSE ’16), 573-582. Piscataway, NJ: IEEE Press. 2014 Come to the street: urban protest, Brazil 2013. Anthropological Quarterly 87(3): 889-902. 2011 Contesting privilege with right: the transformation of differentiated citizenship in Brazil. Citizenship Studies 15(3-4): 335-352. 2009 Dangerous spaces of citizenship: gang talk, rights talk, and rule of law in Brazil. Planning Theory 8(1): 12-31. 2009 Insurgent citizenship in an era of global urban peripheries. Cities and Society 21(2): 253-277. 2007 Citizenship in disjunctive democracies. In Citizenship in Latin America, 75-94. Joseph S. Tulchin and Meg Ruthenburg, editors. Boulder: Lynne Reinner. 2005 Teresa Caldeira and James Holston. State and urban space in Brazil: from modernist planning to democratic interventions. In Global Assemblages: Technology, Politics, and Ethics as Anthropological Problems, 393-416. Aihwa Ong and Stephen J. Collier, editors. London: Blackwell. 2001 Urban citizenship and globalization. In Global City-Regions, 325-348. Allen J. Scott, editor. New York: Oxford University Press. 1999 Teresa Caldeira and James Holston. Democracy and violence in Brazil. Comparative Studies in Society and History 41(4): 691-729. 1999 Alternative modernities: statecraft and religious imagination in the Valley of the Dawn. American Ethnologist 26(3): 605-631 1995 Spaces of insurgent citizenship. Planning Theory 13: 35-51. 1991 Autoconstruction in working-class Brazil. Cultural Anthropology 6(4): 447-465. 1991 The misrule of law: land and usurpation in Brazil. Comparative Studies in Society and History 33(4): 695-725. Books 2013 Cidadania Insurgente: Disjunções da Democracia e da Modernidade no Brasil . São Paulo: Companhia das Letras. 2010 A Cidade Modernista: Uma Crítica de Brasília e Sua Utopia .  São Paulo:Companhia das Letras, 1993, 2010 Rev 2nd edition 2008 Insurgent Citizenship: Disjunctions of Democracy and Modernity in Brazil . Princeton: Princeton University Press. The Roberto Reis Book Prize, Brazilian Studies Association 2010 The Leeds Honor Book, American Anthropological Association (Society for Urban, National, and Transnational/Global Anthropology) 2009 Best Book on Brazil in English, Latin American Studies Association (Brazil Section) 2009 1999 Cities and Citizenship , edited by James Holston. Durham: Duke University Press. Best Single Issue of a Journal, Association of American Publishers 1996 1989 The Modernist City: An Anthropological Critique of Brasília . Chicago: University of Chicago Press The John Addison Porter Prize, Yale University 1986 Follow us: Facebook X (formerly Twitter) YouTube Instagram Home Credits Support UC Berkeley Anthropology Faculty Labs Anthropology Resources Related Research Centers Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright © 2024 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top

