Name: Janice Bell

Description: Janice F. Bell is an accomplished health-services researcher who focuses on how health systems and services influence the quality and accessibility of care, especially for children, youth and vulnerable populations. She is an active member of the school’s Collaborative Cancer Care Research Group (3CRG), an research initiative focused on developing and testing health information technology-enabled interventions to improve the process and outcomes of oncology care. Bell teaches, conducts research and mentors students in the area of health-services research.Prior to joining the School of Nursing, Bell was an assistant professor of health services in the School of Public Health at the University of Washington. There she served as a primary faculty member for the school’s Maternal and Child Health Leadership Training Program, an interdisciplinary Master of Public Health program that prepares students for careers in maternal and child public health practice.At the University of Washington, Bell led several health-services research projects, including a statewide evaluation of nurse-led care management for high-risk, high-cost Medicaid beneficiaries with addiction and mental health problems. Her other recent research includes topics such as disparities in primary care quality provided to children with mental health needs, nationwide trends in the use of pediatric preventive dental health services and geographic factors that contribute to childhood obesity.Bell received the 2011 Outstanding Manuscript Award at the Maternal and Child Health Epidemiology Conference for a paper that examined associations between shortened sleep duration early in life and subsequent obesity in children.She earned her doctoral degree in Health Services Research from the University of Washington, Seattle, in 2005. In 2001, she received a Master of Nursing Degree and a Master of Public Health Degree, both from the University of Washington. She earned a bachelor’s degree in nursing from the University of Toronto in 1984.

Title: Assistant Professor

Website: http://www.ucdmc.ucdavis.edu/nursing/ourteam/faculty/Bell_bio.html

Email: janice.bell@ucdmc.ucdavis.edu

Phone: (916) 734-3038

Address: nan

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/janice-bell/

Personal Website Text Short: Janice F. Bell, Ph.D., M.P.H., M.N., F.A.A.N. | Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing at UC Davis Skip to main content News | Careers | Giving | UC Davis Health Toggle navigation About Overview Contact us Join our email list Connected community Vision and mission School of Nursing strategic plan A decade of discovery Leadership messages Founders Why UC Davis? Living in Sacramento Diversity and inclusion Full diversity statement Diversity and inclusion committee Team agreements Team agreements awards UC Davis Health HEDI office Students Current PhD students Current DNP-FNP students Current master's degree students Student and alumni features Betty Irene Moore Hall Overview Learning spaces Simulation suites Academics Overview Philosophy and methods Codes of conduct Education features Heather M. Young Postdoctoral Fellowship Frequently asked questions Accreditation Student and teaching awards Student wellness Programs DNP — Family Nurse Practitioner DNP — Nurse Anesthesia PhD MHS — Physician Assistant Studies MS — Family Nurse Practitioner MS — Leadership MSN — Master's Entry Program in Nursing PMHNP postgraduate certificate Certificate programs — Health Professions Educator Certificate — Family Caregiving Certificate — Enhancing Patient Safety and Quality Improvement in Healthcare Certificate — Advancing Health Equity Series Graduate Academic Unit Certificate Betty Irene Moore Fellowship Curriculum Fellows News Publications Other academics and training Family Caregiving Institute NP residency Preceptors and clinical training SPLICE Admissions and aid Overview Admissions statement International graduate requirements Frequently asked questions Programs DNP — Family Nurse Practitioner PhD MHS — Physician Assistant Studies MSN — Master's Entry Program in Nursing PMHNP postgraduate certificate User resources Prospective students Current students Alumni Friends and supporters Career opportunities Research Overview Research features Heather M. Young Postdoctoral Scholar Family Caregiving Institute Overview Our team Education Research projects News and events Betty Irene Moore Fellowship Curriculum Fellows News Publications PERINATAL ORIGINS OF DISPARITIES (POD) CENTER About Research Resources News & Events Funding Opportunities Our team Overview Leadership National Advisory Council Nursing Science and Health-Care Leadership Graduate Group Faculty Clinician educators Postdoctoral scholars Staff Volunteer positions Volunteer clinical professors Clinical preceptors Advanced Preceptor Affiliates Join our team Prospective faculty information guide Why UC Davis? Living in Sacramento Alumni Overview Alumni information Giving Overview Donate now Ways to give Alumni and events Stories of support News Newsroom School of Nursing press releases School of Nursing in the news Features Publications Videos Happenings Calendar of events University of California, Davis UC Davis Health Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing Janice F. Bell, Ph.D., M.P.H., M.N., F.A.A.N. Janice F. Bell, Ph.D., M.P.H., M.N., F.A.A.N. Associate Dean for Research, Western Health Advantage Endowed Professor and Professor Janice F. Bell is the associate dean for research, Western Health Advantage Endowed Professor and professor at the Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing at UC Davis. In her role as associate dean, she provides leadership, guidance and mentorship in research to faculty, students and staff in advancing the school's research program as well as contributes to the development of the next generation of nurse scientists. She also teaches doctoral courses. An accomplished health services researcher, Bell joined the School of Nursing in 2012. She is a co-founder of the Family Caregiving Institute at the Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing, which is dedicated to advancing system supports for family caregivers. In her current research with the Alameda County Care Alliance, she developed deep partnerships with the faith-based community to co-create an innovative model for care navigation within congregations, reaching older adults with advanced illness. She also led the scientific review for a national panel defining an implementation framework for serious illness care. Bell currently serves as chair of the School of Nursing's Education Policy and Curriculum Development Subcommittee. In 2015, she received the UC Davis Deans' Excellence in Mentoring Award. She was named the Western Health Advantaged Endowed Professor in 2021. The $1 million endowed professorship is a five-year term and supports a mid-career or senior faculty member in the School of Nursing whose specialty advances health through nursing education, research, practice and leadership. Prior to joining the School of Nursing, Bell was an assistant professor of health services in the School of Public Health at the University of Washington. There, she served as a primary faculty member for the school's Maternal and Child Health Leadership Training Program, an interdisciplinary Master of Public Health program that prepares students for careers in maternal and child public health practice. Bell received the 2011 Outstanding Manuscript Award at the Maternal and Child Health Epidemiology Conference for a paper that examined associations between shortened sleep duration early in life and subsequent obesity in children. Bell earned a Doctor of Philosophy in Health Services Research, a Master of Health Services in Maternal Child Health and a Master of Nursing from the University of Washington. She is widely published, with more than 1,000 citations for her top five papers, as well as successful dissemination in the popular press, including the New York Times, Reuters, NBC Nightly News and National Public Radio. Bell also completed an Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality postdoctoral fellowship in health services at the University of Washington. Contact Information: Phone: 916-734-3038 | E-mail: jfbell@ucdavis.edu Toggle navigation Our team Leadership National Advisory Council Nursing Science and Health-Care Leadership Graduate Group Faculty Postdoctoral scholars Staff Volunteer positions Volunteer clinical professors Clinical preceptors Advanced Preceptor Affiliates Join our team Faculty, postdoctoral fellow, N.P. resident and staff openings Prospective faculty information guide Why UC Davis? Living in Sacramento Quick links Master’s Entry Program in Nursing M.H.S. physician assistant program D.N.P.-F.N.P. Ph.D. program P.M.H.N.P. postgraduate certificate Join our email list Contact us Join our team News More news » Happenings May 21 — Physician assistant faculty presents, leads UC Davis team at national conference Emily Thatcher, a physician assistant (P.A.) and assistant professor at the Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing at UC Davis, taught an emergency medicine ultrasound Point of Care Ultrasound (POCUS) workshop at the American Academy of Physician Associates (AAPA) National Conference in Houston. She also supervised the inaugural UC Davis PA student POCUS team. The second-year students competed against 50 other P.A. programs in the national ultrasound competition and came in 12 th place. iScan tested their knowledge in bedside radiology, diagnosis and management of medical conditions. AAPA is the national professional society for P.A.s and represents more than 68,000 P.A.s across all medical and surgical specialties in all 50 states. Read more Happenings... Innovation in California’s Health Care Landscape Read the 2023 edition of the Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing annual magazine. School of Nursing Features See the latest stories... 2023 Health Professions Higher Education Excellence in Diversity Award Read more » Healthy Aging in a Digital World Learn more » Quick Links User resources Contact us Join our mailing list Careers UC Davis UC Davis Health Encompasses School of Medicine Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing at UC Davis Medical Group Medical Center Connect with Us Stay connected with what′s happening at Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing at UC Davis. Back to top Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing at UC Davis Betty Irene Moore Hall  |   2570 48th St.  |  Sacramento, CA 95817  

		
		 |  
		Phone: 916-734-2145 © 2014 UC Regents. All Rights Reserved

		
			 | Legal | About us | Contact us

