Name: Jay J. Han

Description: Dr. Jay J. Han, M.D., is an associate professor in the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at the University of California, Davis School of Medicine. He is the associate director of the National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research (NIDRR)-funded UC Davis Rehabilitation Research Training Center (RRTC) in Neuromuscular Diseases, and the director of the Neuromuscular Medicine Fellowship, one of only a few in the country.Han has clinical interests in neuromuscular diseases affecting both adult and pediatric populations. His research interests focus on the development of functional outcome measures in patients with neuromuscular disorders and research in electrodiagnosis/electromyograms (EMGs). He actively collaborates with researchers at UC Berkeley and UC Merced on innovative technologies to support rehabilitation in novel ways.Han graduated from Stanford University and received his M.D. from UCSF. He completed his internship, residency and fellowships in neuromuscular medicine and translational research at the University of Washington and at UC Davis. He is a fellow of the American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and the American Association of Neuromuscular and Electrodiagnostic Medicine. Han is the author of numerous publications and a recipient of the Outstanding Faculty Teaching Award from the UC Davis Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation.

Title: Associate Professor

Website: http://www.ucdmc.ucdavis.edu/pmr/ourteam/biodetail.asp?bioid=1254

Email: jay.han@ucdmc.ucdavis.edu

Phone: (916) 734-7041

Address: University of California, Davis

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/jay-j-han/

Personal Website Text Short: UC Davis Health: 404 - Page Not Found Skip to main content News | Careers | Giving | UC Davis Health Toggle navigation About Us UC Davis Health School of Medicine Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing Medical Group Medical Center Overview About UC Davis Health Office of the Vice Chancellor Facts and Figures 150th Anniversary Points of Distinction Awards and Honors Strategic Plan Upcoming Events Contact Us Giving Health Services Primary and Specialty Care Find a Doctor or Provider Open Enrollment Primary Care Specialty Care Medical Center Featured Clinical Programs Comprehensive Cancer Center Children's Hospital Birth Center Heart and Vascular Services MIND Institute Telehealth Services Comprehensive Surgical Services Primary Care See All Clinical Services ... Other Clinical Resources Accepted Health Plans MyUCDavisHealth (formerly MyChart) Clinic Locations Telehealth Video Visits Telehealth Express Care Our Safety and Quality Commitment Physician Referrals Research Centers and Programs Comprehensive Cancer Center Center for Healthcare Policy and Research Institute for Regenerative Cures MIND Institute Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing Research Reducing Health Disparities See All Research Programs ... Other Research Resources Clinical and Translational Science Center Clinical Trials Office Find a Study Human Subjects Research - IRB Administration Research Training and Career Development School of Medicine Office of Research UC Davis Office of Research Education School of Medicine Admissions Degree Programs Academic Departments Alumni Association Office of the Dean Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing Admissions Degree Programs Frequently Asked Questions Alumni Office of the Dean Other Programs and Training Center for Health and Technology Center for Professional Practice of Nursing Center for Simulation and Education Enhancement Clinical Pastoral Education Continuing Medical Education Dietetic Internship Program Graduate Medical Education – Residencies and Fellowships Health Informatics Program Health Sciences Libraries Masters of Public Health Public Health Sciences, Ph.D. Research Education and Career Development Stem Cell Training Program Community Engagement Advisers and Friends National Board of Advisors Community Advisory Board In the Community Community Engagement Highlights Our Commitment to the Underserved Community Health Needs Assessment (CHNA) CHNA Implementation Strategy Principles of Community Government and Community Relations Health Sciences Development Public Affairs and Marketing News News Latest News UC Davis Health Responds Noticias en Español Feature Stories Blogs and Podcasts Videos Social Media Publications For Journalists Public Reporting Careers Jobs at UC Davis Health All UC Davis Health Staff Job Opportunities Nurse Recruitment at UC Davis Health Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing Nursing Volunteer Clinical Faculty School of Medicine Faculty Recruitment School of Medicine Residency and Fellowship Programs Working at UC Davis Health Benefits Overview People with Purpose Temporary Employment Services Campuses and Communities Other UC Jobs UC Davis Campus University of California UC Davis Health Page Not Found Page Not Found The Web page you are attempting to view is not available. Please confirm that you have the correct address and spelling of the page you were seeking. Alternatively, you may want to search for your desired content using the form below. To report the issue, send us an email at hs-webmaster@ucdavis.edu with the subject line " Web Page Not Found ". Include information on how you got to this page, including the address you typed, so we can address the problem. Thank you! Perform a search: Websites Directory UC Davis Health 4301 X St. Sacramento, CA 95817 Directions General info: 800-282-3284 24-hour operator: 916-734-2011 UC Davis Health Resources Find a doctor Maps and directions Careers Giving Volunteer services About UC Davis Health Executive leadership Contact us Upcoming events Newsroom Parking and transportation Primary care locations Facts and figures Community engagement Social media Publications Government and community relations Quick Links Maps and Directions Referral Center Clinical Trials Patient Financial Assistance Careers Giving About Us Find a Provider or Faculty Contact Us Social Media Privacy Practices UC Davis UC Davis Health Encompasses School of Medicine Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing Medical Group Medical Center Connect with Us Stay connected with what’s happening at UC Davis Health. Back to top UC Davis Health 4301 X St.  |  Sacramento, CA 95817  

		
		 |  
		24-hour Sacramento campus operator: 916-734-2011 |  
		Davis campus operator: 530-752-1011 © 2014 UC Regents. All Rights Reserved

		
			 | Legal | Careers | About Us | Contact Us

