Name: Jay Lund

Description: Jay Lund is a Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, and currently the Ray B. Krone Chair of Environmental Engineering. He is on the editorial board of several water resources publications, has been a member of the Advisory Committee for the 1998 and 2005 California Water Plan Updates, and has served as Convenor of the California Water and Environment Modeling Forum (CWEMF) and President of the Universities Council on Water Resources (UCOWR).His principal research interest is in the application of systems analysis, economic, and management methods to infrastructure and public works problems. He has led development and application of a large-scale optimization modeling for California’s water supply, as well as various other modeling studies for the management of flood control and environmental purposes. Climate warming, water marketing, conjunctive use, and integrated water resources management problems have been examined using this model. He is co-author of several books and reports on the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta, published by the Public Policy Institute of California and University of California Press. He co-authored an analysis of economical water supply alternatives to Hetch Hetchy Dam. Outside of California, he has been involved in optimization modeling of other major river systems, including the Columbia River system, the Missouri River system, South Florida, the US Southeast, and the Panama Canal. Lund is also interested in integrated urban water supply planning and management, water transfers and markets and economic design and evaluation of stormwater quality management.

Title: Professor, Director

Website: http://cee.engr.ucdavis.edu/faculty/lund/

Email: jrlund@ucdavis.edu

Phone: (530) 752-5671

Address: University of California, Davis Watershed Sciences Building, 1st Floor One Shields Avenue Davis, CA 95616

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-jay-lund/

Personal Website Text Short: Jay Lund Skip to main content Menu Civil and Environmental Engineering Open Search Search Quick Links + Alumni Apply Safety Directory Department Resources Job Opportunities Campus Map College of Engineering Emergency Services Maps and Directions Schedule Builder About Mission Statement Department Advisory Board Vision History Committees Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Undergraduate Current Undergraduates Undergraduate Majors and Minors Civil Engineering Environmental Engineering Minors Undergraduate Advising Annual Mandatory Advising Course Planning Tools Student Resources Weekly Announcements Forms CEE Scholarships and Fellowships Scholarships 2020-2021 Enrollment Policies Beyond the Classroom Tutoring Services and Study Centers Student Organizations Internships and Careers Research Labs Study Abroad Washington Program ABET Civil Engineering ABET Accreditation Environmental Engineering ABET Accreditation Frequently Asked Questions Student Awards Prospective Undergraduates Graduate Current Graduates Degree Requirements PhD Program Special Courses Forms Student Funding Advising and Mentoring Program Teaching Assistants and Readers Weekly Announcements Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Other Resources Graduate Student Spotlight Newly Admitted Graduate Students New Student Information Course Registration Orientation 2023 Prospective Graduate Students Online Application Masters Degree Doctoral Degree Areas of Research Funding Opportunities Frequently Asked Questions Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Environmental Engineering Geotechnical Engineering Structural Engineering and Structural Mechanics Transportation Engineering Water Resources Engineering Research Centers Emeritus Directory News Give Contact Us Jay Lund Breadcrumb Home Directory Jay Lund Position Title Emeritus Distinguished Professor Civil and Environmental Engineering 530-752-5671 jrlund@ucdavis.edu https://faculty.engineering.ucdavis.edu/lund/ 3023 Ghausi Bio Dr. Lund has research and teaching interests in the application of systems analysis, economic, and management methods to infrastructure and public works problems. His recent work is primarily in water resources and environmental system engineering, but with substantial work in solid and hazardous waste management, dredging and coastal zone management, and some dabbling in urban, regional, and transportation planning. While most of this work involves the application of economics, optimization, and simulation modeling, his interests also include more qualitative policy, planning, and management studies. Awards & Honors 2018 Elected Member of National Academy of Engineering 2016 Distinguished Member, American Society of Civil Engineers 2014 Warren A. Hall Medal, Universities Council on Water Resources 2013 Distinguished Scholarly Public Service Award, UC Davis 2013 Groundwater Resources Association of California, David Todd Lecture 2013 Best Policy-oriented Paper Award, J of Water Resources Planning and Management, 2013 ASCE-EWRI Fellow 2013 California Trout, Golden Trout Award 2011 Julian Hinds Award, American Society of Civil Engineers/EWRI 2010 Editor’s Choice Award, Water Resources Research, 2010 2008 Hugo B. Fischer Award, California Water and Environmental Modeling Forum 2007 ASCE/EWRI Planning and Management Council Service to the Profession Award 2006 William R. Boggess Best Paper Award, J. American Water Resources Association 2006 Outstanding service award for California Water & Environmental Model Forum 2005 George E. Brown Award for Best Collaborative Proposal, UCMEXUS 2004 Journal of Environmental Engineering Editor’s Award for Service 2002 International Water Academy, Member, #143. Tags Environmental Engineering Water Resources Engineering Content by Jay Lund Professor Jay Lund Featured in The New Yorker May 12, 2022 Professor Jay Lund wins Prince Sultan Bin Abdulaziz International Prize for Water (PSIPW) August 25, 2020 Supporting the Next Wave of Water Leaders March 22, 2019 UC Davis Chancellor May, CEE Professors Lund and Abrahamson Elected to National Academy of Engineering February 07, 2018 University of California, Davis , One Shields Avenue, Davis, CA 95616 | 530-752-1011 Questions or comments? Privacy & Accessibility Principles of Community University of California Sitemap Last update: January 18, 2024 Copyright © The Regents of the University of California, Davis campus. All rights reserved. This site is officially grown in SiteFarm .

