Name: Jeanette Cobian-Iñiguez

Description: Jeanette Cobian-Iñiguez is an assistant professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering at the University of California, Merced. Prior to her current position, she was a postdoctoral scholar at the University of California, Berkeley working on smoldering fire behavior of simulated wildland fuels. She completed a Ph.D. at the University of California, Riverside; an M.S. from Cal State LA where she was an LSAMP Bridge to the Doctorate Fellow; and a B.S. at UC San Diego.Cobian-Iñiguez’s interests are in advancing the basic science of fire behavior in the wildland through controlled experiments and in contributing to applied science of wildfire behavior by using remote sensing and data science. She co-organizes the weekly interdisciplinary California Fire Science Seminar series. Her community and K-12 outreach interests are in bilingual (English and Spanish) science communication and in increasing the participation of future generation in STEM careers.Research interests: wildfire, fire behavior, experiments, data science, computer vision, data driven modeling, emissions.

Title: Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering

Website: https://jcobian3.wixsite.com/cobianresearch

Email: jcobian3@ucmerced.edu

Phone: nan

Address: University of California, Merced

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/jeanette-cobian-iniguez/

Personal Website Text Short: Home | cobianresearch top of page Cobian-Iñiguez Fire Laboratory Home Research People Publications Media & Events Contact More... Use tab to navigate through the menu items. Wildland Fire WUI Fire Environmental Flows I am an Assistant Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering at the University of California, Merced. I use principles of heat transfer and fluid mechanics to study fundamental and applied principles of fire behavior and environmental flows. Contact Jeanette Cobian-Iñiguez Email: jcobian3@ucmerced.edu Twitter: @jcobianMerced bottom of page

