Name: Jesse Drew

Description: Jesse Drew’s research and practice centers on alternative and community media and their impact on democratic societies, with a particular emphasis on the global working class. His audio-visual work, represented by Video Data Bank, has been exhibited at festivals and in galleries internationally, including ZKM (Germany), Yerba Buena Center for the Arts (SF), Museum of Contemporary Arts (Chicago), Barcelona Cultural Center (Spain), World Wide Video Festival (Amsterdam), Dallas Film and Video Festival and many others. His writings have appeared in numerous publications, journals and anthologies, includingResisting the Virtual Life(City Lights Press),Reclaiming San Francisco: History, Politics, Culture(City Lights Press),At a Distance(MIT Press),Collectivism After Modernism(University of Minnesota),West of Eden(PM Press). His new book isA Social History of Contemporary Democratic Media(Routledge). He is currently associate professor of Cinema and Technocultural Studies at UC Davis, where he teaches media archaeology, radio production, documentary studies, electronics for artists, and community media. Before coming to UC Davis he headed the Center for Digital Media and was Associate Dean at the San Francisco Art Institute.

Title: Associate Professor of Cinema and Technocultural Studies, UC Davis

Website: http://arts.ucdavis.edu/faculty-profile/jesse-drew

Email: jdrew@ucdavis.edu

Phone: nan

Address: Room 238, Cruess Hall

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/jesse-drew/

Personal Website Text Short: Jesse Drew - UC Davis Arts UC Davis Arts 7 areas of study UC Davis Arts Header link Arts Homepage June 28, 2013 Read more Header link Arts Calendar March 5, 2018 Read more Header link Socials and Email News September 26, 2023 Read more Header link Staff Directory February 28, 2013 Read more Search More options About / Contact News & Events News Events Job Openings Recent Publications Student News People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Lecturers and Associate Instructors Visiting Emeritus Staff Alumni CDM Alumni News Academics Cinema and Digital Media CDM Courses CDM Course Schedules Film Studies Courses Technocultural Studies TCS Major Courses TCS Major Course Schedules Advising Forms and Checklist Prospective Students Resources Modlab Gallery Faculty Profile Jesse Drew Professor of Cinema and Digital Media February 18, 2013 Ph.D. University of Texas at Austin Jesse Drew’s research and practice centers on alternative and
  community media and their impact on democratic societies, with a
  particular emphasis on the global working class. His audio-visual
  work, represented by Video Data Bank, has been exhibited at
  festivals and in galleries internationally. His current film
  project is Open Country, a feature documentary on the politics of
  American Country music. Jesse Drew’s research and practice centers on alternative and
  community media and their impact on democratic societies, with a
  particular emphasis on the global working class. His audio-visual
  work, represented by Video Data Bank, has been exhibited at
  festivals and in galleries internationally, including ZKM
  (Germany), Yerba Buena Center for the Arts (SF), Museum of
  Contemporary Arts (Chicago), Barcelona Cultural Center (Spain),
  World Wide Video Festival (Amsterdam), Dallas Film and Video
  Festival. Open Country is his current film project, a
  feature documentary on the politics of American Country music. His writings have appeared in numerous publications, journals and
  anthologies, including Resisting the Virtual Life (City
  Lights Press), Reclaiming San Francisco: History, Politics,
  Culture (City Lights Press), At a Distance (MIT
  Press), Collectivism After Modernism (University of
  Minnesota), West of Eden (PM Press). His new book is A Social History of Contemporary Democratic Media (Routledge). He is currently associate professor of Cinema and
  Digital Media at UC Davis, where he teaches media archaeology,
  radio production, documentary studies, electronics for artists,
  and community media. Before coming to UC Davis he headed the
  Center for Digital Media and was Associate Dean at the San
  Francisco Art Institute. 530-754-2590 Room 238, Cruess Hall jdrew[remove-this-and-replace-with-at]ucdavis.edu Print-friendly ShareThis Jesse's website Announcement Film About The Roots of Country Music Debuts in Davis February 28, 2024 Glenda Drew Jesse Drew Filmmakers and professors Glenda
  Drew (of Design) and Jesse
  Drew (of Cinema and Digital Media) have completed a project
  decades in the making — a documentary about the roots of American
  Country Music titled Open Country . It
  tells a longer arc of country music that is not rooted in ‘God
  and Country’ but in working class people telling their stories,
  seeking freedom from government interference and a good,
  dignified life. About "Open Country" Film Website Announcement Faculty Members, Alumni and Students  Create Salute to Labor for Regional Gala December 1, 2023 Glenda Drew Jesse Drew Melissa Chandon UC Davis faculty members Glenda Drew, professor of design,
  and Jesse Drew,  professor of cinema and digital
  media, in collaboration with Melissa Chandon, continuing
  lecturer in design, and the International Class Conscious
  Photographers Collective, created “WE ARE
  ESSENTIAL,” a site-specific media arts installation
  specially crafted for the “Salute to Labor Awards Gala.” Read more Announcement Design and CDM Faculty Work Featured in Sacramento Exhibition June 6, 2022 Glenda Drew Jesse Drew Alexa Bonomo William Mead Professors Glenda Drew, design, and Jesse Drew, cinema and
  digital media, and lecturers Alexa Bonomo and William Mead,
  design, have created work that is featured in the installation
  “memory.unshift( )” at the Axis Gallery in Sacramento. Read more Shields Library 2022 Lang Prize annoucement Announcement Faculty and Alumnus Look to the Future in Exhibition September 11, 2020 Glenda Drew Jesse Drew Melissa Chandon Professors Glenda Drew, Department of Design, and Jesse Drew,
  Department of Cinema and Digital Media, have created new works
  using innovative technology that are featured in “Memories of a New Future,” an exhibition at the Barn Gallery
  in Woodland. The installation also includes work by Melissa
  Chandon, lecturer in Design, and Chris Daubert, MFA Art Studio
  (2018). Read more Photo Gallery Faculty Social Activism Through a Lens Photo Gallery June 11, 2020 Glenda Drew Jesse Drew Professors Glenda Drew, design, and Jesse Drew, cinema and
  digital media, are members of Class Conscious Photographers, who
  recently installed “A WORKING LENS (A.W.L.)” in front of the John
  Natsoulas Gallery in Davis. The installation examines the lives
  of “essential” workers during the pandemic. Read more Course Description TCS 155: Introduction to Documentary Studies (4) November 13, 2014 Jesse Drew Lecture/Discussion—3 hour(s); Term Paper. Recent evolution
  of the documentary. The personal essay film;
  found-footage/appropriation work; non-linear, multi-media forms;
  spoken word; storytelling; oral history recordings; and other
  examples of documentary expression. GE
  credit: ACGH, AH, DD, VL. Effective:
  2012 Fall Quarter. Read more News Hackathon Spring 2013 June 5, 2013 September 25, 2013 Glenda Drew Jesse Drew On May 15 2013, a vanload of UC Davis Design and Computer Science
  students made its way over the Grapevine and into Los Angeles to
  participate in a hack-a-thon to lend their skills and
  creative/critical thinking towards helping the millions of
  workers in the US who survive on low wages, no healthcare, no job
  stability and little respect from their employers. Read more Stories of Solidarity Course Description TCS 115: Electronics for Artists September 10, 2013 Jesse Drew Lecture—3 hours; laboratory—3 hours. Creative application of
  electronic technology relevant to media and fine arts involving
  both electronic principles and hands-on application. Read more Press release Creative Ambition Runs High at 12th Annual UC Davis Film Festival May 11, 2012 Sarah Pia Anderson John Iacovelli Jesse Drew Photos for
  download Read more Video promo More information View past years' winning films Back This item appears in: Cinema & Digital Media Faculty Share this page Faculty Profile February 18, 2013 Ph.D. University of Texas at Austin 530-754-2590 Room 238, Cruess Hall jdrew[remove-this-and-replace-with-at]ucdavis.edu Jesse's website Footer link (530) 752-0105 February 26, 2021 (530) 752-0105 Read more Footer link University of California, Davis February 18, 2013 Read more Footer link One Shields Avenue February 18, 2013 Read more Footer link Davis, CA 95616 February 18, 2013 Read more Footer link © The Regents of the University of California February 18, 2013 Read more Footer link Accessibility February 18, 2013 Read more Footer link Staff Directory January 5, 2015 Read more Log in E-mail or username: * Password: * Remember me Request new password Commands Support portal Log in View all UCD Arts departments and programs Melody Chiang Art History February 28, 2013 Read more Melody Chiang Art Studio February 28, 2013 Read more Melody Chiang Cinema and Digital Media February 28, 2013 Read more Melody Chiang Design February 28, 2013 Read more Melody Chiang Music February 28, 2013 Read more Melody Chiang Theatre and Dance February 28, 2013 Read more Melody Chiang Performance Studies November 29, 2018 Read more Melody Chiang Mondavi Center August 30, 2013 Read more Melody Chiang Gorman Museum Design Museum Manetti Shrem Museum TANA February 28, 2013 Read more Melody Chiang ARTS ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP September 4, 2013 Read more Melody Chiang Home: UC Davis Arts February 28, 2013 Read more

