Name: Jian-Qiao Sun

Description: Having trouble recovering from a knee injury or a stroke? Bothered by noise in an airplane? For these problems and many more, UC Merced mechanical engineering Professor Jian-Qiao Sun is working on research answers.He’s worked on the development of smart devices for physical therapy, like a knee brace that can be programmed to the optimal amount of resistance, then adjust that resistance depending on muscle fatigue. Another smart knee brace can be used to evaluate and rehabilitate the gait of recovering stroke patients. These projects rely on modeling of human-machine interactions, nonlinear adaptive controls, sensor and actuator studies and signal processing.Sun’s other areas of research expertise include energy-harvesting technologies; fault detection and optimization of HVAC systems for better energy efficiency in buildings; acoustic applications like sound-control panels for airplanes; evaluating the strength of structures subject to earthquake, ocean waves and wind loading excitations.His research group has also applied their mechanical engineering knowledge to problems from micro flying insect robots to drive-by-wire agricultural machinery.Before joining the faculty at UC Merced in July 2007, Sun was a professor at the University of Delaware. He received his Ph.D. from UC Berkeley and his bachelor’s from the Huazhong University of Science and Technology in Wuhan, China.

Title: Professor

Website: http://faculty.ucmerced.edu/jqsun

Email: jsun3@ucmerced.edu

Phone: (209) 228-4540

Address: University of California, Merced School of Engineering 5200 N Lake Rd. Merced, CA 95344

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-jian-qiao-sun/

Personal Website Text Short: Dr. Jian-Qiao Sun's Home Page Welcome to Professor JQ Sun's Home Page! Applied Controls Laboratory The following is a list of my 
        research projects that I have worked in the past few years. Some are still active, others are done. Contact me for more updated information. Combinatory mechanical characterization of nano-bio-fibers Variable resistance devices for physical rehabilitation with MR fluids Analysis and control of nonlinear deterministic and stochastic systems Structural optimization for sound transmission for aerospace applications Random fatigue of structures Automatic velocity control and tactile feedback control of drive-by-wire and steer-by-wire precision farming machines Polymer foam characterization for sound absorption and loss applications Check the Research page for more discussions. 
      You can meet my graduate and undergraduate students and find out about their study and life in the lab. 
      If you are interested in my publications, click Publications . Interested in studying with me for a graduate degree or gaining undergraduate 
        research experience? Send me an email jqsun@ucmerced.edu . 
		I hire undergraduate and graduate students all the time. Resume Research Publications Presentations Teaching Students Visitors Pictures Contact Links University of California, Merced | PO Box 2039, Merced, CA 95344 | (209) 228-4400 | © 2007 UC Regents

