Name: Jill G. Joseph

Description: Jill G. Joseph is the associate dean for research at the Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing. A physician scientist and collaborator with a distinguished commitment to interprofessional and interdisciplinary education and research, Joseph conducts multiple research projects requiring the participation of colleagues across a wide range of disciplines.As associate dean for research, Joseph leads the research program at the School of Nursing and develops and implements a strategic plan to further enhance the school’s focus on Healthy Systems and Healthy People. She also supports research development through mentorship and collaboration, assures high-quality research infrastructure and support systems, and promotes robust and high-impact, interprofessional research.Prior to joining the team at the School of Nursing, Joseph was associate dean for clinical and translational research at the George Washington University School of Medicine and Health Sciences in Washington, D.C., where she was a professor of pediatrics and an endowed chair. She was also the principal investigator of the Clinical and Translational Sciences Institute there, the only such NIH-funded center awarded to a children’s hospital. Prior to her position at George Washington University, she was a professor at the UC Davis School of Medicine as well as the associate director of the UC Davis Center to Reduce Health Disparities.Joseph earned a Master of Public Health and doctorate in Epidemiology from UC Berkeley in 1979, then conducted research in New Zealand for three years. She later joined the University of Michigan School of Public Health faculty. While there, she was one of the first investigators in the nation to conduct rigorous research on behavioral and psychosocial aspects of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, with her research contributing to preventive interventions. Midcareer, she earned her medical degree from Michigan State University and completed a residency in pediatrics at Albert Einstein/Montefiore Hospital.Her most recent work is broadly focused on understanding and addressing pediatric health disparities and the related system barriers. Her work included the evaluation of programs to enhance parental and child mental health in Head Start, a randomized trial of interventions to improve behavioral risk factors for adverse pregnancy outcomes in African-American women, and studies of violence exposure. As a generalist, Joseph has also participated in studies of pediatric brain injury, medication errors and improved asthma treatment.

Title: Associate Dean for Research and Professor

Website: http://www.ucdmc.ucdavis.edu/nursing/ourteam/faculty/Joseph_bio.html

Email: jill.joseph@ucdmc.ucdavis.edu

Phone: (916) 734-7315

Address: University of California, Davis

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/jill-g-joseph/

Personal Website Text Short: Jill G. Joseph, M.D., Ph.D., M.P.H. | Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing at UC Davis Skip to main content News | Careers | Giving | UC Davis Health Toggle navigation About Overview Contact us Join our email list Connected community Vision and mission School of Nursing strategic plan A decade of discovery Leadership messages Founders Why UC Davis? Living in Sacramento Diversity and inclusion Full diversity statement Diversity and inclusion committee Team agreements Team agreements awards UC Davis Health HEDI office Students Current PhD students Current DNP-FNP students Current master's degree students Student and alumni features Betty Irene Moore Hall Overview Learning spaces Simulation suites Academics Overview Philosophy and methods Codes of conduct Education features Heather M. Young Postdoctoral Fellowship Frequently asked questions Accreditation Student and teaching awards Student wellness Programs DNP — Family Nurse Practitioner DNP — Nurse Anesthesia PhD MHS — Physician Assistant Studies MS — Family Nurse Practitioner MS — Leadership MSN — Master's Entry Program in Nursing PMHNP postgraduate certificate Certificate programs — Health Professions Educator Certificate — Family Caregiving Certificate — Enhancing Patient Safety and Quality Improvement in Healthcare Certificate — Advancing Health Equity Series Graduate Academic Unit Certificate Betty Irene Moore Fellowship Curriculum Fellows News Publications Other academics and training Family Caregiving Institute NP residency Preceptors and clinical training SPLICE Admissions and aid Overview Admissions statement International graduate requirements Frequently asked questions Programs DNP — Family Nurse Practitioner PhD MHS — Physician Assistant Studies MSN — Master's Entry Program in Nursing PMHNP postgraduate certificate User resources Prospective students Current students Alumni Friends and supporters Career opportunities Research Overview Research features Heather M. Young Postdoctoral Scholar Family Caregiving Institute Overview Our team Education Research projects News and events Betty Irene Moore Fellowship Curriculum Fellows News Publications PERINATAL ORIGINS OF DISPARITIES (POD) CENTER About Research Resources News & Events Funding Opportunities Our team Overview Leadership National Advisory Council Nursing Science and Health-Care Leadership Graduate Group Faculty Clinician educators Postdoctoral scholars Staff Volunteer positions Volunteer clinical professors Clinical preceptors Advanced Preceptor Affiliates Join our team Prospective faculty information guide Why UC Davis? Living in Sacramento Alumni Overview Alumni information Giving Overview Donate now Ways to give Alumni and events Stories of support News Newsroom School of Nursing press releases School of Nursing in the news Features Publications Videos Happenings Calendar of events University of California, Davis UC Davis Health Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing Jill G. Joseph, M.D., Ph.D., M.P.H. Jill G. Joseph, M.D., Ph.D., M.P.H. Professor Emeritus Jill G. Joseph is a professor emeritus at the Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing. A physician scientist and collaborator with a distinguished commitment to interprofessional and interdisciplinary education and research, Joseph conducts multiple research projects requiring the participation of colleagues across a wide range of disciplines. Joseph’s most recent work broadly focuses on developing evidence-based capabilities for improving person-centered care through community-engaged and nurse-directed care coordination. Her work also explores the specific value of mobile technology to support these efforts, with an initial focus on the needs of cancer patients, their families and care-providers, as well as their clinicians. She leads collaborative efforts that include a focus on vulnerable populations in both rural and urban areas for whom culturally embedded and high-quality care is especially important. As a generalist, Joseph has also participated in studies of pediatric brain injury, medication errors and improved asthma treatment, as well as improved prenatal care for African-American women and investigations to better understand the origins of child well-being in difficult circumstances. Prior to joining the team at the School of Nursing, Joseph was associate dean for clinical and translational research at the George Washington University School of Medicine and Health Sciences in Washington, D.C., where she was a professor of pediatrics and an endowed chair. She was also the principal investigator of the Clinical and Translational Sciences Institute there, the only such NIH-funded center awarded to a children’s hospital. Prior to her position at George Washington University, she was a professor at the UC Davis School of Medicine as well as the associate director of the UC Davis Center to Reduce Health Disparities. Joseph earned a Master of Public Health and doctorate in Epidemiology from UC Berkeley in 1979, then conducted research in New Zealand for three years. She later joined the University of Michigan School of Public Health faculty. While there, she was one of the first investigators in the nation to conduct rigorous research on behavioral and psychosocial aspects of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, with her research contributing to preventive interventions. Midcareer, she earned her medical degree from Michigan State University and completed a residency in pediatrics at Albert Einstein/Montefiore Hospital. Contact information: Phone: 916-734-7315 | Email: jgjoseph@ucdavis.edu Toggle navigation Our team Leadership National Advisory Council Nursing Science and Health-Care Leadership Graduate Group Faculty Postdoctoral scholars Staff Volunteer positions Volunteer clinical professors Clinical preceptors Advanced Preceptor Affiliates Join our team Faculty, postdoctoral fellow, N.P. resident and staff openings Prospective faculty information guide Why UC Davis? Living in Sacramento Quick links Master’s Entry Program in Nursing M.H.S. physician assistant program D.N.P.-F.N.P. Ph.D. program P.M.H.N.P. postgraduate certificate Join our email list Contact us Join our team News More news » Happenings May 21 — Physician assistant faculty presents, leads UC Davis team at national conference Emily Thatcher, a physician assistant (P.A.) and assistant professor at the Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing at UC Davis, taught an emergency medicine ultrasound Point of Care Ultrasound (POCUS) workshop at the American Academy of Physician Associates (AAPA) National Conference in Houston. She also supervised the inaugural UC Davis PA student POCUS team. The second-year students competed against 50 other P.A. programs in the national ultrasound competition and came in 12 th place. iScan tested their knowledge in bedside radiology, diagnosis and management of medical conditions. AAPA is the national professional society for P.A.s and represents more than 68,000 P.A.s across all medical and surgical specialties in all 50 states. Read more Happenings... Innovation in California’s Health Care Landscape Read the 2023 edition of the Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing annual magazine. School of Nursing Features See the latest stories... 2023 Health Professions Higher Education Excellence in Diversity Award Read more » Healthy Aging in a Digital World Learn more » Quick Links User resources Contact us Join our mailing list Careers UC Davis UC Davis Health Encompasses School of Medicine Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing at UC Davis Medical Group Medical Center Connect with Us Stay connected with what′s happening at Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing at UC Davis. Back to top Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing at UC Davis Betty Irene Moore Hall  |   2570 48th St.  |  Sacramento, CA 95817  

		
		 |  
		Phone: 916-734-2145 © 2014 UC Regents. All Rights Reserved

		
			 | Legal | About us | Contact us

