Name: Jill Finlayson

Description: Jill Finlayson is managing director of the CITRIS Innovation Hub, which is dedicated to accelerating research into action. In alignment with the CITRIS mission of IT research in the interest of society, the CITRIS Innovation Hub nurtures innovative research collaborations, next-generation talent and commercialization to hasten technological progress, workforce inclusion and societal impact. Featured programs include the Workforce Innovation Program, the Visiting Innovators Program and EDGE in Tech.Finlayson was formerly director of theExpanding Diversity and Gender Equity in Tech Initiative at the University of California(EDGE in Tech), co-sponsored by CITRIS and the College of Engineering at the University of California, Berkeley. EDGE in Tech supports research and programs to promote the equitable participation of those who are currently underrepresented in the tech industry. Flagship programs include the annual EDGE in Tech Symposium and Athena Awards, which recognize those who embody, encourage and promote the inclusion of women and people of color in technology.Finlayson has a strong background in strategy, entrepreneurship and mentorship. Prior to her role at CITRIS, she led mentorship and developed and delivered incubator programs for Singularity University Ventures, whose mission is to increase the number of impact-focused startups applying exponential technologies to address humanity’s grand challenges. Finlayson has managed a community of social entrepreneurs at the Skoll Foundation, led marketing at various startups, consulted for the World Bank, Gates Foundation and Ford Foundation, and led the Toys category at eBay where she also sat on the first board of the eBay Foundation, and later authored the book Fundraising on eBay.Finlayson judges, mentors and coaches founders of global startups, from Singularity University, Cal Big Ideas and other startup competitions. She has mentored impressive technology leaders from the Middle East, North Africa, sub-Saharan Africa, Central Asia and Pakistan through the U.S. State Department’s TechWomen program for more than 10 years. She also participates in delegations and U.S. Embassy trips to deliver innovation, entrepreneurship and mentoring talks and workshops. She is passionate about startups, social entrepreneurship, civic tech, education, inclusive innovation, mentoring, tech for good, impact, ethics and leadership. Finlayson is a graduate of the University of California, Berkeley.

Title: Managing Director, CITRIS Innovation Hub

Website: https://edge.berkeley.edu/

Email: finlayson@citris-uc.org

Phone: nan

Address: University of California 330 Sutardja Dai Hall, MC-1764 Berkeley, CA 94720-1764

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/jill-finlayson/

Personal Website Text Short: EDGE in Tech at UC Skip to main content Skip to primary navigation Header Search Widget Search this website Home About Vision & Mission People Events EDGE in Tech Athena Awards EDGE in Tech Symposium Leadership Roundtable Resources Logo and Assets Blogs Reports DeCal Course Corporate Diversity and Inclusion Survey 150W Database Pay Equity Equitable Advancement Connect Membership Sponsorships Give Tweets by EDGEinTech Who we are Despite significant efforts to increase the enrollment and graduation rate of women and other under-included identities in STEM disciplines, the high attrition rate of female and BIPOC engineers in industry is a looming threat to the future of the U.S. economy. Negative workplace experiences have been found to be the most significant reason for leaving engineering careers. Our goal is to strive for a world in which women and all identities in technical fields are proportionately represented and equitably compensated throughout the professional ranks in industry, academia, and the public sector. Learn More Stay up-to-date with EDGE in Tech at UC Join our Mailing List Twitter Linkedin Medium Featured Content Events Find out more about upcoming and past events. Blogs Keep up to date with the latest stories provided by EDGE in Tech at the University of California. Innovation Resource Database Need resources related to topics such as startups, mentoring, and other career advice? This search tool can help you find the resources you need. CITRIS and the Banatao Institute Contact Privacy Accessibility Nondiscrimination © 2017–2024  CITRIS and the Banatao Institute  | Log in

