Name: J.J. Garcia-Luna-Aceves

Description: J.J.  Garcia-Luna-Aceves is campus director emeritus of CITRIS and the Banatao Institute at the University of California, Santa Cruz. He received a B.S. degree in electrical engineering from the Universidad Iberoamericana in Mexico City, Mexico, in 1977; and M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from the University of Hawaii at Manoa in 1980 and 1983, respectively.He is a distinguished professor of computer science and engineering at UC Santa Cruz, where he holds the Jack Baskin Endowed Chair of Computer Engineering, and he is also a principal scientist at the Palo Alto Research Center (PARC). Prior to joining UCSC in 1993, he was a center director at SRI International (SRI) in Menlo Park, California.  He has been a visiting professor at Sun Laboratories, and a principal of protocol design at Nokia.Garcia-Luna-Aceves was elected a corresponding member of the Mexican Academy of Sciences in 2013. He is a fellow of IEEE, the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) and the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS).He received the IEEE Computer Society Technical Achievement Award in 2011 “for pioneering contributions to the theory and design of communication protocols for ad-hoc wireless networks.” He received the IEEE Communications Society Ad Hoc and Sensor Networks Technical Committee (AHSN TC) Technical Recognition Award in 2012 “for fundamental contributions to the theory and design of communication protocols for routing and channel access in ad-hoc wireless networks.” In 2016, he received the IEEE MILCOM Technical Achievement Award for sustained contributions to military communications.He is the co-recipient of the IEEE Fred W. Ellersick 2008 MILCOM Award for best unclassified paper. He is also co-recipient of best paper awards at the European Wireless Conference 2010 and the IEEE MASS 2008, SPECTS 2007, IFIP Networking 2007 and IEEE MASS 2005 conferences, as well as the Best Student Paper Award of the 1998 IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics. He received the SRI International Exceptional-Achievement Award in 1985 and 1989.Garcia-Luna-Aceves holds 56 U.S. patents and has published more than 500 papers in journals, conferences and books.  He has directed more than 40 Ph.D. theses and more than 30 M.S. theses since he joined UCSC in 1993. He has served as the chair of the ACM Special Interest Group on Multimedia and as general chair of numerous conferences, including IEEE ICNC 2016, ACM MSWIM 2015, ACM MobiCom 2008, IEEE SECON 2005, ACM Multimedia ’93 and ACM SIGCOMM ’88. He has also served as program chair of ACM MobiHoc 2002, ACM MobiCom 2000, IEEE MULTIMEDIA ’92, ACM SIGCOMM ’87 and ACM SIGCOMM ’86. He has served in the IEEE Internet Technology Award Committee, the IEEE Richard W. Hamming Medal Committee, and the National Research Council Panel on Digitization and Communications Science of the Army Research Laboratory Technical Assessment Board.Garcia-Luna-Aceves also directs the Computer Communication Research Group (CCRG) at UC Santa Cruz.

Title: Campus Director Emeritus

Website: https://campusdirectory.ucsc.edu/cd_detail?uid=jjaceves

Email: jj@soe.ucsc.edu

Phone: nan

Address: nan

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/j-j-garcia-luna-aceves/

Personal Website Text Short: Campus Directory - UC Santa Cruz UC Santa Cruz MyUCSC People Calendars Maps A-Z Index Search Campus Directory About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life Visit UCSC Quick Start Guides Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Prospective Students Parents & Family Community Home » Find People » Campus Directory Search for people, departments, or email addresses. « Back To Search Results J. J. Garcia-Luna-Aceves Distinguished Professor Emeritus (650) 576-9208 jjaceves@ucsc.edu jj.garcialunaaceves@utoronto.ca jj@soe.ucsc.edu Pronouns he, him, his, his, himself Division Baskin School of Engineering Department/College/Unit Computer Science and Engineering Title Distinguished Professor Emeritus Affiliation Faculty Faculty Type Emeriti Areas of Expertise Computer Networks Network Technology Computer Science Computer Engineering Mathematical Modeling Web Site University of Toronto Home Page UCSC Home Page Google Scholar Citations Listed in Highly Cited Researchers (h>100) according to their Google Scholar Citations Primary Office Location Engineering Building 2 -- Office Hours for Students/ Office Hours -- Mail Stop SOE3 Biography, Education and Training J.J. Garcia-Luna-Aceves is a Distinguished Professor Emeritus at the University of California, Santa Cruz (UCSC). He is a Canada Excellence Research Chair and Professor in The Edward S. Rogers Sr. Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering at the University of Toronto. He is also a Visiting Professor at the Computing Research Center of the National Polytechnic Institute in Mexico City, Mexico. He received the B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from the Universidad Iberoamericana, Mexico City, Mexico in 1977; and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, HI in 1980 and 1983, respectively.  He has been a Principal Scientist at the Palo Alto Research Center (PARC),  a Center Director at SRI International (SRI) in Menlo Park, California, a Visiting Professor at Sun Laboratories in Menlo Park, California, and a Principal of Protocol Design at Nokia in Mountain View, California. Dr. Garcia-Luna-Aceves was elected a Corresponding Member of the Mexican Academy of Sciences in 2013. He is a life fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE); and a fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM),  the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), the Asia-Pacific Artificial Intelligence Association (AAIA), and the National Academy of Inventors (NAI). He received the 2023 Harry H. Goode Memorial Award “for significant and pioneering contributions to algorithms, protocols and architectures for routing in computer networks and the Internet.” He received the 2016 IEEE MILCOM Technical Achievement Award for sustained contributions to military communications.  He received the IEEE Communications Society Ad Hoc and Sensor Networks Technical Committee (AHSN TC) Technical Recognition Award in 2012 “for fundamental contributions to the theory and design of communication protocols for routing and channel access in ad-hoc wireless networks.” He received the IEEE Computer Society Technical Achievement Award in 2011 "for pioneering contributions to the theory and design of communication protocols for ad-hoc wireless networks." He was also the co-recipient of the George E. Pake Golden Oak Award from PARC in 2017  for his contributions to the Content-Centric Networking (CCN) patent portfolio. Dr. Garcia-Luna-Aceves holds more than 70 US patents and has published more than 500 papers in journals, conferences, and books. His h-index currently stands at 104. He is a co-recipient of the IEEE Fred W. Ellersick 2008 MILCOM Award for best unclassified paper, and has received Best Paper Awards at ACM PE-WASUN 2022,  the International Conference on Ubiquitous Networking `22, IEEE LCN 2022, ACM ICN 2020, IEEE IPCCC 2018, the European Wireless Conference 2010, IEEE MASS 2008, SPECTS 2007, IFIP Networking 2007, IEEE MASS 2005 conferences, and  the 1998 IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics. He received the SRI International Exceptional-Achievement Award in 1985 and 1989, and is listed in Marquis Who's Who in America and Who's Who in The World. He has served as the Inaugural Chair of the ACM Special Interest Group on Multimedia and as General Chair of numerous conferences, including IEEE MASS 2023,  IEEE ICNC 2016, ACM MSWIM 2015, ACM MobiCom 2008, IEEE SECON 2005, ACM Multimedia '93, and ACM SIGCOMM '88. He has also served as Program Chair of ACM MobiHoc 2002, ACM MobiCom 2000, IEEE MULTIMEDIA '92, ACM SIGCOMM '87, and ACM SIGCOMM '86. Dr. Garcia-Luna-Aceves has directed more than 40 Ph.D. theses and more than 40 M.S. theses at UCSC. He directed the Computer Communication Research Group (CCRG) for 30 years, served as the Department Chair of the Computer Engineering Department and the Computer Science and Engineering Department, and also served as Campus Director of CITRIS and the Banatao Institute. Research Interests Computer communication Internet Wireless networks Internet of Things Cyber-physical systems Distributed algorithms Teaching Interests Computer communication, applied discrete mathematics, performance analysis If you have the proper permissions, you can edit this entry This campus directory is the property of the University of California at Santa Cruz. To protect the privacy of individuals listed herein, in accordance with the State of California Information Practices Act, this directory may not be used, rented, distributed, or sold for commercial purposes. For more details, please see the university guidelines for assuring privacy of personal information in mailing lists and telephone directories. If you have any questions please contact the ITS Support Center . UC Santa Cruz, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, Ca 95064 ©2018 Regents of the University of California. All Rights Reserved. (1) Feedback Accreditation Non-Discrimination Policy Employment Privacy Policy & Terms of Use Sexual Violence Prevention & Response Last modified: July 30, 2018

