Name: Jose Carmena

Description: Jose M. Carmena is an Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, Cognitive Science, and Neuroscience at the University of California, Berkeley, and Co-Director of the Center for Neural Engineering and Prostheses at UC Berkeley and UCSF. His research program in neural engineering and systems neuroscience is aimed at understanding the neural basis of sensorimotor learning and control, and at building the science and engineering base that will allow the creation of reliable neuroprosthetic systems for the severely disabled. Dr. Carmena received the B.S. and M.S. degrees in electrical engineering from the Polytechnic University of Valencia (Spain) in 1995 and the University of Valencia (Spain) in 1997. Following those he received the M.S. degree in artificial intelligence and the Ph.D. degree in robotics both from the University of Edinburgh (Scotland, UK) in 1998 and 2002 respectively. From 2002 to 2005 he was a Postdoctoral Fellow at the Department of Neurobiology and the Center for Neuroengineering at Duke University (Durham, NC). In the summer of 2005 he was appointed Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, the Program in Cognitive Science, and the Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute at the University of California, Berkeley. He is senior member of the IEEE (RA, SMC and EMB societies), Society for Neuroscience, and the Neural Control of Movement Society. Dr. Carmena has been the recipient of the Aspen Brain Forum Prize in Neurotechnology (2010), the National Science Foundation CAREER Award (2010), the Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship (2009), the Okawa Foundation Research Grant Award (2007), the UC Berkeley Hellman Faculty Award (2007), and the Christopher Reeve Paralysis Foundation Postdoctoral Fellowship (2003).

Title: Assistant Professor

Website: http://www.eecs.berkeley.edu/Faculty/Homepages/carmena.html

Email: carmena@eecs.berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 643-2430

Address: University of California, Berkeley 754 Sutardja Dai Hall Berkeley, Ca 94720-1764

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-jose-carmena/

Personal Website Text Short: Jose M. Carmena | EECS at UC Berkeley Skip to Content Expand Search Form Collapse Search Form Expand Main Menu Collapse Main Menu Search for: Search For Students For Faculty/Staff Industry News Events Give Search for: Search About About Expand Submenu About About Overview History Expand Submenu The First Women of EECS Joseph Thomas Gier Diversity Expand Submenu Hear From Women in EECS Broadening Participation in EECS Visiting By the Numbers Special Events Expand Submenu 2022-23 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 The Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) at UC Berkeley offers one of the strongest research and instructional programs in this field anywhere in the world. Blog Academics Academics Expand Submenu Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Admissions & Programs Expand Submenu CS Major EECS Major EECS/CS Program Comparison Chart Second Bachelor's Degree Summer Research Cal Day Graduate Admissions & Programs Expand Submenu Grad Admissions FAQ Industry-Oriented Programs Research-Oriented Programs Fellowships Adding the EECS/CS M.S. From Another Department Recommended Coursework For Current Students Expand Submenu ed | EECS 101 Courses Expand Submenu EE Courses CS Courses Unlike many institutions of similar stature, regular EE and CS faculty teach the vast majority of our courses, and the most exceptional teachers are often also the most exceptional researchers. View Courses Research Research Expand Submenu Research Research Overview Areas Centers & Labs Colloquium Expand Submenu Archive BEARS Symposium Expand Submenu Archive Technical Reports Ph.D. Dissertations Research is the foundation of Berkeley EECS. Faculty, students, and staff work together on cutting-edge projects that cross disciplinary boundaries to improve everyday life and make a difference. EECS Research People People Expand Submenu People People Overview Directory Leadership Faculty Expand Submenu In Memoriam Students Expand Submenu Student Awards Student Organizations Staff Expand Submenu Student Affairs Faculty  Support Course Support Facilities and Engineering Services Financial Services HR IT Support Industrial & Public Relations Alumni Expand Submenu EE Distinguished Alumni CS Distinguished Alumni EECS faculty, students, staff, and alumni are central to our success as one of the most thriving and distinguished departments on the Berkeley campus. Latest News Connect Connect Expand Submenu Connect Connect Overview Support EECS Expand Submenu EECS Excellence Fund Memorial Funds K-12 Outreach Student Affairs Faculty Positions Staff Positions Contact Expand Submenu In an Emergency Consider reaching out for a conversation, attending a department seminar or conference, viewing a lecture on any one of our public channels, or supporting us via a gift to the university. You can help strengthen our dedication to education and outreach, solidify close ties to industry, and nourish a supportive and inclusive culture. Contact us Home / People / Faculty / Jose M. Carmena Jose M. Carmena Research Areas Control, Intelligent Systems, and Robotics (CIR) Biosystems & Computational Biology (BIO) Brain-machine interfaces; Neuroprosthetics; Sensorimotor learning and control; Neural ensemble computation Research Centers Center for Neural Engineering & Prostheses (CNEP) CITRIS People and Robots (CPAR) Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute (HWNI) Biography Jose M. Carmena is the Chancellor's Professor of Electrical Engineering and Neuroscience at the University of California-Berkeley, and Co-Director of the Center for Neural Engineering and Prostheses at UC Berkeley and UCSF. His research program in neural engineering and systems neuroscience is aimed at understanding the neural basis of sensorimotor learning and control, and at building the science and engineering base that will allow the creation of reliable neuroprosthetic systems for the severely disabled. Dr. Carmena received the B.S. and M.S. degrees in electrical engineering from the Polytechnic University of Valencia (Spain) in 1995 and the University of Valencia (Spain) in 1997. Following those he received the M.S. degree in artificial intelligence and the Ph.D. degree in robotics both from the University of Edinburgh (Scotland, UK) in 1998 and 2002 respectively. From 2002 to 2005 he was a Postdoctoral Fellow at the Department of Neurobiology and the Center for Neuroengineering at Duke University (Durham, NC). He is Fellow of the IEEE and member of the Society for Neuroscience, and the Neural Control of Movement Society. Dr. Carmena has been the recipient of the McKnight Technological Innovations in Neuroscience Award (2017), Bakar Fellowship (2012), the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society Early Career Achievement Award (2011), the Aspen Brain Forum Prize in Neurotechnology (2010), the National Science Foundation CAREER Award (2010), the Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship (2009), the Okawa Foundation Research Grant Award (2007), the UC Berkeley Hellman Faculty Award (2007), and the Christopher Reeve Paralysis Foundation Postdoctoral Fellowship (2003). Education 2002, Ph.D., Robotics, University of Edinburgh, Scotland 1998, M.S., Artificial Intelligence, University of Edinburgh, Scotland 1997, M.S., Electrical Engineering, University of Valencia, Spain 1995, B.S., Electrical Engineering, Polytechnic University of Valencia, Spain Selected Publications M. Shanechi, A. Orsborn, H. Moorman, S. Gowda, S. Dangi, and J. M. Carmena, "Rapid control and feedback rates in the sensorimotor pathway enhance neuroprosthetic control," Nature Communications , Jan. 2017. M. Shanechi, A. Orsborn, and J. M. Carmena, "Robust brain-machine interface design using optimal feedback control modeling and adaptive point process filtering," PLoS Computational Biology , May 2016. D. Seo, R. Neely, K. Shen, S. U, E. Alon, J. M. Rabaey, J. M. Carmena, and M. Maharbiz, "Wireless recording in the peripheral nervous system with ultrasonic neural dust," Neuron , vol. 91, pp. 529-539, April 2016. A. Orsborn, H. Moorman, S. Overduin, M. Shanechi, D. Dimitrov, and J. M. Carmena, "Closed-loop decoder adaptation shapes neural plasticity for skillful neuroprosthetic control," Neuron , vol. 82, pp. 1-14, June 2014. K. Clancy, A. Koralek, R. Costa, D. Feldman, and J. M. Carmena, "Volitional modulation of optically recorded calcium signals during neuroprosthetic learning," Nature Neuroscience , vol. 17, no. 6, pp. 807-810, Feb. 2014. A. Koralek, K. Ganguly, and J. M. Carmena, "Temporally precise cell-specific coherence develops in corticostriatal networks during learning," Neuron , vol. 79, no. 5, pp. 865-87, Oct. 2013. A. Koralek, X. Jin, J. Long, R. Costa, and J. M. Carmena, " Corticostriatal plasticity is necessary for learning intentional neuroprosthetic skills ," Nature , vol. 483, no. 7389, pp. 331-335, March 2012. K. Ganguly, D. F. Dimitrov, J. D. Wallis, and J. M. Carmena, " Reversible large-scale modification of cortical networks during neuroprosthetic control ," Nature Neuroscience , vol. 14, pp. 662-667, March 2011. R. Canolty, K. Ganguly, S. Kennerley, C. Cadieu, K. Koepsell, J. Wallis, and J. M. Carmena, " Oscillatory phase coupling coordinates anatomically-dispersed functional cell assemblies ," PNAS , Sep. 2010. K. Ganguly and J. M. Carmena, " Emergence of a stable cortical map for neuroprosthetic control ," PLoS Biology , July 2009. Awards, Memberships and Fellowships Institute of Electrical & Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Fellow ,
                                                                                2017 McKnight Technological Innovations in Neuroscience Award ,
                                                                                2017 Bakar Fellows Spark Award ,
                                                                                2012 Engineering Medicine & Biology Society Early Career Achievement Award ,
                                                                                2011 NSF Faculty Early Career Development Award (CAREER) ,
                                                                                2010 Aspen Brain Forum Junior Scientist Prize in Neurotechnology ,
                                                                                2010 Sloan Research Fellow ,
                                                                                2009 Hellman Fellow ,
                                                                                2007 Okawa Research Grant ,
                                                                                2007 Photo Larger Photo Links Personal Homepage Publications Dissertations Contact Information 286 Li Ka Shing Center tel: 643-2430 563 Cory Hall jcarmena@berkeley.edu Research Support Veronika Blair 684 Soda 6692442714 veronika@berkeley.edu About History Diversity Visiting Special Events People Directory Leadership Faculty Staff Students Alumni Connect Support Us K-12 Outreach Faculty Positions Staff Positions Contact Academics Undergrad Admissions & Programs Graduate Admissions & Programs Courses Prospective Women Students Current Students Resources Room Reservations My EECS Info For Students For Grads For Undergrads For ASEs IT Services Facilities/Safety For Faculty/Staff Visiting Scholars Research Areas Centers & Labs Projects Technical Reports PhD Dissertations Joint Colloquium BEARS Symposium Industry Recruit Students Corporate Access Learn more about the Campaign for Berkeley and Graduate Fellowships. Give to EECS Berkeley EECS on Twitter Berkeley EECS on Instagram Berkeley EECS on LinkedIn Berkeley EECS on YouTube EE CS UC Berkeley Berkeley Engineering CDSS Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy Contact © 2023 UC Regents

