Name: Jovan Pantelic

Description: My research is focused on advancing sensor network analytics which bridges the gap between research and application of sensing networks. This is fully in line with the CITRIS mission to shorten the pipeline between world-class laboratory research and the development of applications, platforms, companies, and even new industries. Sensing networks are new technology on the market and my work should help with value creating forResearch interests:distributed IoT air quality sensing networks, occupant exposure, wearable sensors, indoor air quality, the impact of exposure on occupant health

Title: nan

Website: http://berkeley.academia.edu/JovanPantelic

Email: nan

Phone: nan

Address: nan

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/jovan-pantelic/

Personal Website Text Short: Jovan  Pantelic | University of California, Berkeley - Academia.edu Skip to main content Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer. To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser . Log In Sign Up Log In Sign Up more About Press Blog People Papers Terms Privacy Copyright We're Hiring! Help Center less Jovan  Pantelic University of California, Berkeley , Architecture, Center for the Built Environment , Faculty Member Princeton University , School of Architecture , Post-Doc Follow Following Followers 114 Following 76 Co-authors 16 Public Views Interests View All (16) CV uploads Papers Infectious virus in exhaled breath of symptomatic seasonal influenza cases from a college community by Paul Jacob Bueno de Mesquita and Jovan  Pantelic Little is known about the amount and infectiousness of influenza virus shed into exhaled breath. ... more Little is known about the amount and infectiousness of influenza virus shed into exhaled breath. This contributes to uncertainty about the importance of airborne influenza transmission. We screened 355 symptomatic volunteers with acute respiratory illness and report 142 cases with confirmed influenza infection who provided 218 paired nasopharyngeal (NP) and 30-minute breath samples (coarse >5-μm and fine ≤5-μm fractions) on days 1–3 after symptom onset. We assessed viral RNA copy number for all samples and cultured NP swabs and fine aerosols. We recovered infectious virus from 52 (39%) of the fine aerosols and 150 (89%) of the NP swabs with valid cultures. The geometric mean RNA copy numbers were 3.8 × 10 4 /30-minutes fine-, 1.2 × 10 4 /30-minutes coarse-aerosol sample, and 8.2 × 10 8 per NP swab. Fine-and coarse-aerosol viral RNA were positively associated with body mass index and number of coughs and negatively associated with increasing days since symptom onset in adjusted models. Fine-aerosol viral RNA was also positively associated with having influenza vaccination for both the current and prior season. NP swab viral RNA was positively associated with upper respiratory symptoms and negatively associated with age but was not significantly associated with fine-or coarse-aerosol viral RNA or their predictors. Sneezing was rare, and sneezing and coughing were not necessary for infectious aerosol generation. Our observations suggest that influenza infection in the upper and lower airways are compartmentalized and independent. influenza virus | aerosol | airborne infection | vaccination effects | viral shedding Save to library Download Edit Compare citation rank Readers Related papers Mentions View impact Comparing the indoor environmental quality of a displacement ventilation and passive chilled beam application to conventional air-conditioning in the Tropics by Clayton Miller and Jovan  Pantelic Building and Environment ,  2018 The satisfaction of occupants with an indoor environment supplied by a conventional central VAV a... more The satisfaction of occupants with an indoor environment supplied by a conventional central VAV airconditioning system was compared to a novel system represented by decentralized ventilation units and a network of passive chilled beams. In parallel with occupant survey measurement of indoor air quality (IAQ) parameters was conducted with the developed wireless IAQ sensing kits. The same occupant cohort was surveyed for both systems, as occupants of the conventionally-conditioning office, known as the 'Previous Office' later moved into the office conditioned by the novel system, known as the '3for2 Office'. We observed that the perceived thermal comfort and air quality satisfaction of the occupants were markedly higher in the 3for2 Office than in the Previous Office. While occupants of the 3for2 Office could raise or lower indoor air temperatures, they appeared to be consistently satisfied with higher indoor air temperatures than that set by the building management of the Previous Office. The primarily Singaporean occupants of the 3for2 Office also felt thermally comfortable even when indoor air velocities in the office were measured to be below 0.1 m/s recommended by Singaporean Standards. The 3for2 Office's ventilation system was designed to supply outdoor air beyond minimal required ventilation rates, which lead to relatively low Save to library Download Edit Compare citation rank Readers Related papers Mentions View impact 3for2: Realizing Spatial, Material, and Energy Savings through Integrated Design by Clayton Miller , Jovan  Pantelic , and Marcel Bruelisauer CTBUH Journal ,  2016 Save to library Download Edit Compare citation rank Readers Related papers Mentions View impact 3for2: Realizing Spatial, Material, and Energy Savings through Integrated Design by Jovan  Pantelic , Forrest Meggers , and Marcel Brülisauer As the world adapts to dual trends of climate change and urbanization, tall office buildings in h... more As the world adapts to dual trends of climate change and urbanization, tall office buildings in hot and humid climate zones near the equator are among the prime candidates for a significant change in design approach. Though many individualized improvements to operating systems, envelopes and material selections have been introduced in recent years, it is generally agreed a holistic approach is needed to truly capitalize on the smaller-scale innovations. With a focus on reducing the necessary size of the services plenum, in this paper, an alternative paradigm for the optimization of space, material, and energy use in buildings is presented: a holistic integration of all building systems – structural, mechanical, and electrical – across a building’s entire lifecycle, from early-stage design to construction and operation Save to library Download Edit Compare citation rank Readers Related papers Mentions View impact Absence of Detectable Influenza RNA Transmitted via Aerosol during Various Human Respiratory Activities – Experiments from Singapore and Hong Kong by Kwok wai Tham and Jovan  Pantelic PLoS ONE ,  2014 Save to library Download Edit Compare citation rank Readers Related papers Mentions View impact Correction: Different Types of Door-Opening Motions as Contributing Factors to Containment Failures in Hospital Isolation Rooms by Kari Reijula and Jovan  Pantelic PLoS ONE ,  2014 Save to library Edit Compare citation rank Readers Related papers Mentions View impact Different Types of Door-Opening Motions as Contributing Factors to Containment Failures in Hospital Isolation Rooms by Kari Reijula , Jovan  Pantelic , Kwok wai Tham , and Andre Nicolle PLoS ONE ,  2013 Save to library Download Edit Compare citation rank Readers Related papers Mentions View impact Performance evaluation of the coupling of a desktop personalized ventilation air terminal device and desk mounted fans by KW Tham and Jovan  Pantelic The performance of a coupled system of the Desktop Personalized Ventilation Air Terminal Device (... more The performance of a coupled system of the Desktop Personalized Ventilation Air Terminal Device (DPV ATD) and desk mounted fans (DMF) was examined in a field environmental chamber. Cooling effect was evaluated using manikin-based equivalent temperature (Teq,), of each of the 26 body segments of a breathing thermal manikin (BTM) and personal exposure effectiveness (PEE) was used as an indicator for effectiveness of ventilation. Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) was used to examine the velocity field generated Save to library Download Edit Compare citation rank Readers Related papers Mentions View impact Effectivness of a personalized ventilation system in reducing personal exposure against directly released simulated cough droplets by KW Tham and Jovan  Pantelic Abstract The inhalation intake fraction was used as an indicator to compare effects of desktop pe... more Abstract The inhalation intake fraction was used as an indicator to compare effects of desktop personalized ventilation and mixing ventilation on personal exposure to directly released simulated cough droplets. A cough machine was used to simulate cough release from the front, back, and side of a thermal manikin at distances between 1 and 4 m. Cough droplet concentration was measured with an aerosol spectrometer in the breathing zone of a thermal manikin. Particle image velocimetry was used to characterize the velocity field in Save to library Download Edit Compare citation rank Readers Related papers Mentions View impact A preference driven multi-criteria optimization tool for HVAC design and operation by Jovan  Pantelic and KW Tham This paper discusses the issue of selecting the design solution that best accords with an articul... more This paper discusses the issue of selecting the design solution that best accords with an articulated preference of multiple criteria with an acceptable performance band. The application of a newly developed multi-criteria decision-making tool called RR-PARETO2 is presented. An example of HVAC design is used to illustrate how solutions could be selected within a multi-criteria optimization framework. In this example, five criteria have been selected, namely, power consumption, thermal comfort, risk of airborne infection of . Save to library Download Edit Compare citation rank Readers Related papers Mentions View impact Development and performance evaluation of an exhaled-breath bioaerosol collector for influenza virus The importance of the aerosol mode for transmission of influenza is unknown. Understanding the ro... more The importance of the aerosol mode for transmission of influenza is unknown. Understanding the role of aerosols is essential to developing public health interventions such as the use of surgical masks as a source control to prevent the release of infectious aerosols. Little information is available on the number and size of particles generated by infected persons, which is partly due to the limitations of conventional air samplers, which do not efficiently capture fine particles or maintain microorganism viability. We designed and ... Save to library Download Edit Compare citation rank Readers Related papers Mentions View impact Personalized ventilation as a control measure for airborne transmissible disease spread by Jovan  Pantelic and G. Sze-to The protective role of personalized ventilation (PV) against plausible airborne transmissible dis... more The protective role of personalized ventilation (PV) against plausible airborne transmissible disease was investigated using cough droplets released from a 'coughing machine' simulating the human cough at different distances (1, 1.75 and 3 m) from the PV user. Particle image velocimetry was used to characterize and visualize the interaction between the cough-generated multiphase flow and PV-induced flow in the inhalation zone of the thermal breathing manikin. A dose–response model for unsteady imperfectly mixed ... Save to library Download Edit Compare citation rank Readers Related papers Mentions View impact The design of a decentralized ventilation system for an office in Singapore: key findings for future research by Clayton Miller , P. Murray , Jovan  Pantelic , and Matthias Mast In this paper, we present what was learned in the research & design process of a decentralized ve... more In this paper, we present what was learned in the research & design process of a decentralized ventilation system with chilled ceilings for a commercial office in Singapore. We make two key observations from the knowledge gathered. First, we observe, in quantitative terms, that present-day radiant cooling panel products may not provide sufficient sensible cooling capacity for commercial offices in hot and humid climates. However, upon considering the use of passive chilled beams as an alternative chilled ceiling product , we do observe that a decentralized ventilation system comprising both recirculating and dedicated outdoor air fan coil units may reduce daily electricity requirements for airconditioning in Singaporean office spaces by over 15%. Save to library Download Edit Compare citation rank Readers Related papers Mentions View impact Human convection flow in spaces with and without ventilation: personal exposure to floor-released particles and cough-released droplets by Jovan  Pantelic and Dusan  Licina Indoor Air ,  2015 Save to library Download Edit Compare citation rank Readers Related papers Mentions View impact Experimental Characterization of the Human Convective Boundary Layer in a Calm Indoor Environment by Jovan  Pantelic , Dusan  Licina , and Chandra Sekhar In the offices of the future, human occupants will become a major heat source since the airflow g... more In the offices of the future, human occupants will become a major heat source since the airflow generated by heat sources such as lighting and equipment will be less important due to increased use of low-powered devices. In that regard, the volume flux of the human convective boundary layer is comparable to the total ventilation flow, thus having a prominent role in the formation of airflow patterns in an indoor environment, spread of airborne infectious diseases, inhaled air quality and thermal comfort. On the other hand, radiant chilled ceiling is seen as a sustainable energy efficient technology that has been increasingly utilized in low energy building design. By having a reduced convective and increased radiant heat transfer, this technology allows expanding the upper limit of dry bulb temperature. The implication of such a design on the air movement in the vicinity of the human body, and thus on the transport of potentially infectious pollutants is little known to date. This s... Save to library Edit Compare citation rank Readers Related papers Mentions View impact Effectiveness of a personalized ventilation system in reducing personal exposure against directly released simulated cough droplets by Jovan  Pantelic and Dusan  Licina Indoor Air ,  2015 Save to library Download Edit Compare citation rank Readers Related papers Mentions View impact Evaluating and adapting low exergy systems with decentralized ventilation for tropical climates by Luca Baldini , Esmail Saber , and Jovan  Pantelic Energy and Buildings ,  Dec 2013 Exergy concept can be used to create an innovative cooling and ventilation system in the tropics.... more Exergy concept can be used to create an innovative cooling and ventilation system in the tropics.The experimental results show that units will achieve low enough humidity ratio level.Results based on the mathematical model show condensation risk can be avoided.The humidity ratio of air supplied from the decentralized units has to be kept below 13 g/kg.The use of low exergy high temperature radiant cooling in the tropics is only possible with adequate dehumidification. We analyze the adaption of a decentralized ventilation system to supply dehumidified air using models and experimental prototypes. The decentralized air supply prototype was developed and initially tested at the ETH Zurich, then installed in a building laboratory that was shipped to Singapore-ETH Centre, and it was modeled and evaluated in collaboration with the National University of Singapore. We present the findings on its performance and ability to mitigate the risk of condensation for high performance radiant cooling surfaces for buildings in the tropics from models and experiments. We show that adequate dehumidification can be achieved in the decentralized supply unit by our expanded cooling coil. Our model shows that when the supply air has a humidity ratio of 13 g/kg then sufficient mitigation of condensation on the chilled panels is achieved. Experiments in the laboratory showed supply air down to 11 g/kg, which should be sufficient, but also showed the potentially large impact of infiltration of humid outdoor air in the tropics because humidity in the space remained higher than expected, and was also very sensitive to infiltration in our models. Save to library Download Edit Compare citation rank Readers Related papers Mentions View impact Experimental Characterization of the Human Convective Boundary Layer in a Calm Indoor Environment In the offices of the future, human occupants will become a major heat source since the airflow g... more In the offices of the future, human occupants will become a major heat source since the airflow generated by heat sources such as lighting and equipment will be less important due to increased use of low-powered devices. In that regard, the volume flux of the human convective boundary layer is comparable to the total ventilation flow, thus having a prominent role in the formation of airflow patterns in an indoor environment, spread of airborne infectious diseases, inhaled air quality and thermal comfort. On the other hand, radiant chilled ceiling is seen as a sustainable energy efficient technology that has been increasingly utilized in low energy building design. By having a reduced convective and increased radiant heat transfer, this technology allows expanding the upper limit of dry bulb temperature. The implication of such a design on the air movement in the vicinity of the human body, and thus on the transport of potentially infectious pollutants is little known to date. This s... Save to library Edit Compare citation rank Readers Related papers Mentions View impact Assessment of the mixing air delivery system ability to protect occupants from the airborne infectious disease transmission using Wells-Riley approach HVAC and R Research ,  2012 Save to library Download Edit Compare citation rank Readers Related papers Mentions View impact Absence of Detectable Influenza RNA Transmitted via Aerosol during Various Human Respiratory Activities – Experiments from Singapore and Hong Kong PLoS ONE ,  2014 Save to library Download Edit Compare citation rank Readers Related papers Mentions View impact Infectious virus in exhaled breath of symptomatic seasonal influenza cases from a college community by Paul Jacob Bueno de Mesquita and Jovan  Pantelic Little is known about the amount and infectiousness of influenza virus shed into exhaled breath. ... more Little is known about the amount and infectiousness of influenza virus shed into exhaled breath. This contributes to uncertainty about the importance of airborne influenza transmission. We screened 355 symptomatic volunteers with acute respiratory illness and report 142 cases with confirmed influenza infection who provided 218 paired nasopharyngeal (NP) and 30-minute breath samples (coarse >5-μm and fine ≤5-μm fractions) on days 1–3 after symptom onset. We assessed viral RNA copy number for all samples and cultured NP swabs and fine aerosols. We recovered infectious virus from 52 (39%) of the fine aerosols and 150 (89%) of the NP swabs with valid cultures. The geometric mean RNA copy numbers were 3.8 × 10 4 /30-minutes fine-, 1.2 × 10 4 /30-minutes coarse-aerosol sample, and 8.2 × 10 8 per NP swab. Fine-and coarse-aerosol viral RNA were positively associated with body mass index and number of coughs and negatively associated with increasing days since symptom onset in adjusted models. Fine-aerosol viral RNA was also positively associated with having influenza vaccination for both the current and prior season. NP swab viral RNA was positively associated with upper respiratory symptoms and negatively associated with age but was not significantly associated with fine-or coarse-aerosol viral RNA or their predictors. Sneezing was rare, and sneezing and coughing were not necessary for infectious aerosol generation. Our observations suggest that influenza infection in the upper and lower airways are compartmentalized and independent. influenza virus | aerosol | airborne infection | vaccination effects | viral shedding Save to library Download Edit Compare citation rank Readers Related papers Mentions View impact Comparing the indoor environmental quality o

