Name: Karl Brown

Description: Karl Brown is Deputy Director of CIEE and Director for CIEE’s Energy Use in Buildings program. As Program Director, he plans and manages new technology demonstration efforts that are leading to deep reductions in energy consumption by buildings. Karl also helps develop energy policy for the University of California (UC), provides energy planning support for UC campuses, and contributes to UC system wide energy efficiency initiatives.A CIEE staff member since 1991, Karl has more than 25 years of experience in energy systems engineering. He is an expert on ‘deep energy efficiency’ in buildings – sharp reductions in energy consumption that are achieved through appropriate application of new technologies, optimal use of existing technologies, smart design employing measured performance benchmarking, and performance monitoring that enables continuing reductions in energy use over time.In 2010, Karl was honored as the UC Sustainability Champion for his leadership role in the planning and documentation of deep energy efficiency at UC’s new Merced campus and for his role in the adoption of monitoring-based commissioning practices at UC facilities. He was also recognized for his substantial contributions to the development of the UC system’s Policy on Sustainable Practices.Karl was named “Energy Engineer of the Year” in 2003 by the Association of Energy Engineers Bay Area Chapter, and received the 2008 “Go Beyond” Award from the International Institute for Sustainable Laboratories and R&D Magazine for his contributions to the Laboratories for the 21st Century Program. He also serves on the steering committee of the California Higher Education Sustainability Conference. Karl helped found and continues to advise the UC/California State University/Investor-Owned Utility Energy Efficiency Partnership. He has B.S. and M.S. degrees in Mechanical Engineering from UC Berkeley.

Title: Deputy Director

Website: http://uc-ciee.org/technical-experts/2/dpeople

Email: karl.brown@uc-ciee.org

Phone: (510) 205-0761

Address: nan

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/karl-brown/

Personal Website Text Short: California Institute for Energy and Environment (CIEE) Skip to content MENU MENU About Who we are Latest Team Partners Founder Projects Student Opportunities Public Engagement Sentinel Newsletter BECC Conference BERC Energy Summit Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Innovate, Engage, Inspire Bold Ideas, World-class Research, Innovative Solutions Based in UC Berkeley, at CITRIS and the Banatao Institute, California Institute for Energy and Environment (CIEE) leverages innovative & unique collaborative research , engaging influential stakeholders, partners & donors , while offering hands-on experience for the next generation . CIEE CITRIS Student Opportunities Latest Book Review: Miriam Aczel on American Climate Migration CIEE Postdoctoral Scholar Dr. Miriam Aczel recently co-published a book review of On the Move: The Overheating Earth and the Uprooting of America by journalist Abrahm Lustgarten in Science Magazine. Event Recap: Strategies for Buildings and Technician Education at the 2024 National Institute Co-hosted by the Building Efficiency for a Sustainable Tomorrow (BEST) Center and the Lawrence Berkeley National Lab (LBNL), this year’s conference centered on the theme, “Less Carbon, More Action! Strategies for Buildings & Technician Education.” Surles Makes Case for Sustainable Energy Transitions CIEE Senior Advisor Dr. Terry Surles and co-author Joachim Monkelbaan propose an integrated approach to implementing the global energy transition in the latest issue of the Journal of International Business and Diplomacy. Research Updates from 2023 Art Rosenfeld Award Winner Eleanor Adachi Eleanor Adachi, a dual-degree Master’s student at UC Berkeley and recipient of the 2023 Art Rosenfeld Award, shares how the award has helped further her research on dynamic electricity pricing and beyond. Sustainable Systems for Energy: Supporting the CPUC on Multi-Attribute Energy and Environmental Decision-Making CIEE manages a program for supporting the California Public Utilities Commission’s (CPUC) goals, with tasks spanning energy efficiency, energy storage, electric vehicles, financial and behavioral studies, and lifecycle analysis. CIEE’s Research Publications Access CIEE’s archive of reports and research papers in eScholarship. All Latest Featured Projects Active Electric Grid Oakland EcoBlock The goal of the EcoBlock research project is to explore strategies for resilience and the rapid, equitable, and affordable reduction of greenhouse gas emissions through urban block-scale retrofitting. All Projects Select Partners / Sponsors All Partners The problems in our energy sector today are some of the most challenging we have ever faced. I’m excited to be part of a team that exemplifies the interdisciplinary skills necessary to tackle these problems and work towards a decarbonized future with them. Phillippe Phanivong , Postdoctoral Scholar Team All Team Student Opportunities CIEE is a dedicated group of experts who define, conduct, and manage public-interest energy research. Based in the University of California, at CITRIS and the Banatao Institute , CIEE puts its experts and other leading researchers to work on energy challenges, yielding new ideas and technologies to meet California’s pace-setting goals. Contact David Brower Center 2150 Allston Way Suite 280 Berkeley, CA 94704 Directions info@uc-ciee.org Pages About Projects Student Opportunities Public Engagement Donate to CIEE Stay Informed Get the latest news in your inbox Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin © 2024 CIEE. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Accessibility California Relay Service 711 Terms of Use Nondiscrimination

