Name: Katerina Ziotopoulou

Description: Coming from a geotechnical earthquake engineering perspective, Professor Ziotopoulou’s interest in sustainable water and gas distribution targets at figuring out how to make them more resilient and consequently more sustainable in the face of extreme events (e.g. earthquakes, tsunamis) and the loads that these impose to these systems. Being buried, a water pipeline’s fate is intimately related with that of its surrounding ground. Being able to simulate and thus predict ground damages is the core of her research and lies in the backbone of sustainable water and gas pipelines.Research Interests:Geotechnical earthquake engineering, constitutive modeling of soils, liquefaction effects on structures and lifelines, numerical modeling of soil-structure systems, laboratory testing, development of numerical tools, geotechnical systems engineering and sustainable lifelines.

Title: Assistant Professor

Website: https://faculty.engineering.ucdavis.edu/ziotopoulou/

Email: kziotopoulou@ucdavis.edu

Phone: nan

Address: nan

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-katerina-ziotopoulou/

Personal Website Text Short: Ziotopoulou Research Group Skip to main content Menu Ziotopoulou Research Group Ziotopoulou Research Group Open Search Search Quick Links + UC Davis Main navigation (extended config) Home Research Projects Publications Journal Publications Conference Publications Book Chapters & Reports Software Other Products Educational Activities Mentoring Professional Development Technical Workshops & Presentations People Research group visit to the Golden Gate Bridge, 2020 UCD alumni at 7ICEGE, Rome, Italy Ishihara Symposium at UC San Diego Research group attending ASCE-GI Geocongress 2019 in Philadelphia, PA Recent News: Aug 2020 - Sumeet (PhD candidate) is building his second centrifuge test at the Center of Geotechnical Modeling (CGM) on the liquefaction-induced downdrag loads on piles Aug 2020 - Maya (PhD candidate) is finalizing her journal paper "Mechanical behaviour of artificially cemented sands: experimental and numerical developments" Jul 2020 - Gianluca Regina, a visiting researcher from the University of Calabria, Rende, Italy, went back to Italy. Gianluca was working on the numerical modeling of the ground response analysis for earth dams and joined in Winter 2020. We wish him good luck in his future endeavors! Jun 2020 - Katerina wrapped up two undergraduate courses taught online including one Soil Mechanics Lab and has been sharing her online teaching experience with academia through her participation in webinars on online education. Jun 2020 - Hussain Alshawaf (MS student) graduated with his Master's degree. We wish him good luck in his future endeavors! College of Engineering Contact Us Follow @KarinZiot Tweets by KaterinaZiot University of California, Davis , One Shields Avenue, Davis, CA 95616 | 530-752-1011 Questions or comments? Privacy & Accessibility Principles of Community University of California Sitemap Last update: January 13, 2024 Copyright © The Regents of the University of California, Davis campus. All rights reserved. This site is officially grown in SiteFarm .

