Name: Katherine Yelick

Description: Katherine Yelick is vice chancellor for research and Robert S. Pepper Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Berkeley. She is also a senior faculty scientist at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. She has been a member of advisory board of CITRIS and the Banatao Institute since 2022.Yelick’s research is in programming languages, compilers, parallel algorithms and automatic performance tuning. She is well known for her work in partitioned global address space (PGAS) languages and co-invented the Unified Parallel C (UPC) and Titanium languages. She and her students developed program analyses and optimization techniques for these languages, and the Berkeley Lab team built compiler and runtime support that is used by several other research and production projects. She also led the Sparsity project, the first automatically tuned library for sparse matrix kernels, and co-led the development of the Optimized Sparse Kernel Interface (OSKI). Yelick has worked on interdisciplinary teams developing scientific applications ranging from simulations of chemistry, fusion and blood flow in the heart to analysis problems in phylogenetics and genome assembly.Yelick was director of the National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center (NERSC) from 2008–12 and led the Computing Sciences Area at Berkeley Lab from 2010–19. She earned her Ph.D. in electrical engineering and computer science from MIT and has been a professor at UC Berkeley since 1991 with a joint research appointment at Berkeley Lab since 1996.Yelick is a member of the National Academy of Engineering and the American Association for Arts and Sciences. She is also an ACM Fellow and recipient of the ACM/IEEE Ken Kennedy Award and the ACM-W Athena Lecturer Award. She previously served as a member of the Computing Community Consortium (CCC) and on the National Academies Computer Science and Telecommunications Board (CSTB), the California Council on Science and Technology, and the LLNS/LANS Science and Technology Committee overseeing research at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) and Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL).

Title: Vice Chancellor for Research

Website: http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/~yelick/

Email: yelick@cs.berkeley.edu

Phone: nan

Address: nan

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/katherine-yelick/

Personal Website Text Short: Yelick Home Page Katherine Yelick Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences UC Berkeley Home Research Publications Talks Teaching Biography Overview Katherine (Kathy) Yelick is the Robert S. Pepper Distinguished Professor of Electrical
  Engineering and Computer Sciences and the Vice Chancellor for
  Research at UC
  Berkeley . She is also a Senior Faculty Scientist at Lawrence Berkeley National
  Laboratory .  Her research is in high performance computing,
  programming languages, compilers, parallel 
  algorithms, and automatic performance tuning.  She currently
  leads the ExaBiome project on
  scalable tools for analyzing microbial data and 
  co-leads the Berkeley Benchmarking and Optimization
  ( Bebop ) group.
  She was the Associate Dean for Research in the Division of Computing, Data Science
  and Society at UC Berkeley from 2020 through 2021;
  the Associate Laboratory Director for Computing Sciences at LBNL from 2010
  through 2019; and prior to that she led the  
  National Energy Research Scientific Computing
  Center ( NERSC ).
  Yelick is a member of National Academy of Engineering and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and she is a Fellow of both the Association for Computing Machinery and the American Association for the Advancement of Science. A longer bio, CV and high-resolution photo be found at here . Research Topics High Performance Computing Partitioned Global Address Space programming Communication-Avoiding Algorithms Automatic Performanc Tuning High Performance Data Analytics Computational Biology Contact Information Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences: 771 Soda Hall #1776 Berkeley, CA 94720 Office Hours: by appointment Email: Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research: 119 California Hall Berkeley, CA 94720-1500 Email: vcr@berkeley.edu Phone: (510) 642-7540 Executive Admin: Joel Moldenhauer Email: joelmold@berkeley.edu Research Projects Current HipMer :
      High performance genome assembler ( source code ) diBella: A distributed memory long-read assembler Bebop :
      Berkeley Benchmarking and Optimization Project Berkeley  UPC :
      Unified Parallel C at Berkeley These last two are active projects, but I'm no longer directly
    involved. UPC++ :
      PGAS language based on C++ GASNet : Global Address
      Space networking layer Past DEGAS : Dynamic Exascale Global Address Space Par Lab : The Parallel Computing Laboratory Titanium : A Java-based PGAS language BIPS : Berkeley
	Institute for Performance Studies IRAM : Intelligent RAM ISTORE : Intelligent Storage OSKI : Optimized Sparse Matrix Kernel Interface Sparsity : Autotuning sparse matrix kernels Split-C : An early PGAS language. Multipol : Data structures for distributed memory Coordination The
	Castle Project: Integrated parallel computing software Related Links ExaBiome Exascale (ECP) Berkeley UPC Bebop DEGAS PGAS UPC CSTB CCC Students Alok Tripathy* Reginald Frank *co-advised by Aydın Buluç © 2016 Katherine Yelick | Based on a Design by Andreas Vilkund

