Name: Katia Obraczka

Description: Katia Obraczka is campus director of CITRIS at the University of California, Santa Cruz, and a professor at UC Santa Cruz’s Jack Baskin School of Engineering. She received her B.S. and M.S. in electrical and computer engineering from the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro. She received her M.S and Ph.D. degrees in computer science from the University of Southern California in 1990 and 1994, respectively.Research interests: computer networks, distributed systems, internet information systems, operating systems.

Title: Director, CITRIS at UC Santa Cruz

Website: https://campusdirectory.ucsc.edu/cd_detail?uid=obraczka

Email: katia@cse.ucsc.edu

Phone: (831) 459-4308

Address: University of California, Santa Cruz Jack Baskin School of Engineering 1156 High Street Santa Cruz, CA 95064

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/katia-obraczka/

Personal Website Text Short: Campus Directory - UC Santa Cruz UC Santa Cruz MyUCSC People Calendars Maps A-Z Index Search Campus Directory About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life Visit UCSC Quick Start Guides Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Prospective Students Parents & Family Community Home » Find People » Campus Directory Search for people, departments, or email addresses. « Back To Search Results Katia Obraczka Professor 831-459-4308 obraczka@ucsc.edu katia@soe.ucsc.edu obraczka@ucsc.edu Division Baskin School of Engineering Department/College/Unit Computer Science and Engineering Title Professor Affiliation Faculty Faculty Type Regular Faculty Web Site Lab Site Primary Office Location Jack Baskin Engineering Building N/A Additional Location(s) Engineering 2, Room 323 Mail Stop SOE3 Biography, Education and Training Katia Obraczka is a Professor at UC Santa Cruz's Jack Baskin School of Engineering. Her research and teaching interests include computer networks, distributed systems, Internet information systems, and operating systems. Research Interests Computer networks Distributed systems Operating systems Internet information systems Mobile computing Wireless networks If you have the proper permissions, you can edit this entry This campus directory is the property of the University of California at Santa Cruz. To protect the privacy of individuals listed herein, in accordance with the State of California Information Practices Act, this directory may not be used, rented, distributed, or sold for commercial purposes. For more details, please see the university guidelines for assuring privacy of personal information in mailing lists and telephone directories. If you have any questions please contact the ITS Support Center . UC Santa Cruz, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, Ca 95064 ©2018 Regents of the University of California. All Rights Reserved. (2) Feedback Accreditation Non-Discrimination Policy Employment Privacy Policy & Terms of Use Sexual Violence Prevention & Response Last modified: July 30, 2018

