Name: Kenichi Soga

Description: Kenichi Soga is Chancellor’s Professor at the University of California, Berkeley. He obtained his BEng and MEng from Kyoto University in Japan and PhD from the University of California at Berkeley. He was Professor of Civil Engineering at the University of Cambridge before joining UC Berkeley in 2016. He has published more than 400 journal and conference papers. His current research activities are Infrastructure sensing, City-scale modeling and simulations of infrastructure systems, Performance based design and maintenance of underground structures, Energy geotechnics, and Geotechnics from micro to macro. He is a Fellow of the UK Royal Academy of Engineering and a Fellow of the Institution of Civil Engineers. He is the recipient of many awards including George Stephenson Medal and Telford Gold Medal from the Institution of Civil Engineers and Walter L. Huber Civil Engineering Research Prize from the American Society of Civil Engineers.Program:GeoSystems (Geoengineering)Systems

Title: Chancellor’s Professor

Website: http://www.ce.berkeley.edu/people/faculty/soga

Email: soga@berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 664-7534

Address: University of California, Berkeley

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/kenichi-soga/

Personal Website Text Short: Kenichi Soga | Civil and Environmental Engineering Skip to main content Please enable javascript in your browser for full site features Log In Toggle navigation Navigation Menu About Overview Principles of Community Institutes Visitors Contact Grad Programs Construction Systems Energy, Civil Infrastructure and Climate Engineering and Project Management Environmental Engineering GeoSystems Engineering Structural Engineering, Mechanics and Materials Systems Engineering Transportation Engineering People Faculty Staff Alumni Advisory Council Undergraduate Prospective Undergraduates Admissions Diversity Curriculum Advising Certificate Undergrad Student Orgs Study Abroad Finances Careers Graduate Prospective Graduates Admissions Diversity Programs Degrees Grad Student Orgs Finances Careers Handbook Testing Facilities Structures Lab Equipment Lab Staff Resources For Students For Faculty For Staff For Visiting Scholars and Postdocs Diversity and Inclusion Libraries Computing Documentation Safety Documentation (CEE)² Program People Faculty Profile Kenichi Soga Donald H. McLaughlin Chair in Mineral Engineering Chancellor's Professor Research Interests Infrastructure sensing and modeling, Energy Geotechnics, Fundamentals of soil behavior, Geotechnical structures, Ground engineering, Soil & granular mechanics Contact soga@berkeley.edu (510) 664-7534 Office 447 Davis Hall Office Hours Tuesdays, 4-5pm Thursdays, 4-5pm Soga Research Group Center for Smart Infrastructure BerkeleyLab Profile ITS Faculty Profile Google Scholar UCB Geosystems Group Summary Research In The News Kenichi Soga is the Donald H. McLaughlin Professor in Mineral Engineering and a Chancellor’s Professor at UC Berkeley. Soga is also the Director of the Berkeley Center for Smart Infrastructure, a faculty scientist at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, and serves as a Special Advisor to the Dean of the College of Engineering for Resilient and Sustainable Systems. Soga’s research focuses on infrastructure sensing, performance-based design and maintenance of infrastructure, energy geotechnics, and geomechanics. He has published more than 450 journal and conference papers and is the co-author of "Fundamentals of Soil Behavior" with Professor James K Mitchell. He is a member of the National Academy of Engineering, a fellow of the UK Royal Academy of Engineering, the Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE), the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), and the Engineering Academy of Japan. He is the recipient of several notable awards, including the George Stephenson Medal and Telford Gold Medal from ICE in 2006, the Walter L. Huber Civil Engineering Research Prize from ASCE in 2007, and the UCB Bakar Prize for his work on commercialization of smart infrastructure technologies in 2022. For more details, please go to https://smartinfrastructure.berkeley.edu/ http://geomechanics.berkeley.edu/ https://geotechnical.berkeley.edu/ Education Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley, 1994 M.Eng., Kyoto University, Japan, 1989 B.Eng., Kyoto University, Japan, 1987 Curriculum Vitae (CV) Kenichi’s research focuses on infrastructure sensing through distributing optics sensing, wireless sensor network, energy harvesting, and computer vision. He also focuses on energy geotechnics, city-scale modeling of infrastructure systems, performance-based design and maintenance of underground structures, and geotechnics from micro to macro. Soga’s research group is interested in developing new monitoring technologies, which will provide insight into the behavior of infrastructure, detect anomalies, and provide data for performance analyses. They are also conducting research on city-scale modeling and simulations to evaluate the value of sensing for better management of infrastructure during operation as well as for better response during and after natural disasters such as earthquakes and wildfires. Here are a few of the research projects Soga is currently working on below: Sensing Technologies - Sensor technologies and methodologies are developed to transform the future of infrastructure and geomechanics through smart information. The data gathered permits an assessment of the behavior of the infrastructure in its environment and allows performance analyses. The group develops, tests, and delivers new robust, resilient, and adaptable technologies, such as distributed fiber optic sensors (DFOS), wireless sensor network (WSN), energy harvesting, and computer vision. City-Scale Modeling - In the city-scale modeling group, Soga’s team develops scientific simulation models to capture the behaviors of infrastructures and integrate them into a “system of systems” model to obtain insights. Wildfire is a recurring natural disaster in California and many parts of the world. The pathway to improve the current planning and operation is a complex socio-technical process that spans the environment, the organization, and communications structures, as well as the human behaviors before, during, and after emergency situations. In this theme, Soga’s research group has developed/deployed three interconnected models on the fire progression, communications process, and traffic evacuations. We have teamed up with designers, game developers, social scientists, fire and traffic agencies, as well as local communities to achieve a streamlined process from academic research to social impacts. Computational Geomechanics - Soga’s team conducts research in the field of computational geomechanics utilizing a variety of methods, including the Material point method (MPM), Finite element method (FEM), and Lattice element method (LEM) in research and consulting applications such as landslides, slope failures, tunneling, soil-pipeline interactions, geothermal energy, and deep borehole drilling. Shallow Geothermal Energy - Shallow geothermal energy is an emerging renewable green energy that can provide heating and cooling for buildings in a safe, non-emitting, and affordable way, thus reducing the dependence on natural gas. Soga’s research group is exploring the potential of shallow geothermal energy through in-situ geothermal investigation, city-scale geothermal simulation and optimization, and the development of an advanced energy delivery system. Machine Learning for Construction and Infrastructure - Soga's team utilizing and developing data analytics techniques to better understand and solve complex problems in underground construction and infrastructure. News Title Publication Date CEC Awards $3 Million to Research Team Led By CEE Professor Kenichi Soga to Integrate Advanced Technologies for Enhanced Risk Assessment 04/24/2024 NHERI Computational Symposium Hosted by SimCenter 02/12/2024 Center for Smart Infrastructure Holds Lab Test at Richmond Field Station 12/26/2023 Kenichi Soga Delivers Keynote Speech at the Fourth International Symposium on Machine Learning & Big Data in Geoscience 11/13/2023 "The Future of Infrastructure Today! webinar series is launched by the Center for Smart Infrastructure 10/18/2023 NSF-Funded Project Team Hosts Community Workshops 09/05/2023 EBMUD USL Tunnel Inspection Using Boston Dynamics' Spot Robot Equipped with Advanced Sensor Technology 07/18/2023 CSI Team Celebrates EBMUD's 100th Anniversary 06/21/2023 Kenichi Soga Writes Article for NAE Bridge Magazine Spring Issue “Sustainable Smart Cities” 04/21/2023 Kenichi Soga Inducted into NAE 02/09/2023 CEE Researchers to Help Northern California Communities Reduce Wildfire Risk with Dynamic Modeling 12/14/2022 GeoSystems Program Hosts Sixth Annual Geotechnical Engineering Research Symposium 11/21/2022 Spotlights No mentions in Spotlights Student Updates Title Publication Date CE 112 Hosts Water Industry Career Roundtable 02/20/2024 Berkeley Fire Chief Gives Lecture in CE170 class on Wildfire Preparedness 11/13/2023 CE112 Students Observe a Pipeline Test at the Center for Smart Infrastructure 11/09/2022 CE170 Students Fly Drones and Conduct LiDAR Scans On Campus 10/04/2022 Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering College of Engineering UC Berkeley Give to CEE © 2024 UC Regents Accessibility Nondiscrimination Campus Privacy Office

