Name: Kimiko Ryokai

Description: Kimiko is an assistant professor at the School of Information and Center for New Media at UC Berkeley. Kimiko received her MS and PhD in Media Arts & Sciences from MIT in 1999 and 2005 respectively. At the MIT Media Lab, Kimiko was a member of the Tangible Media Group and the Gesture and Narrative Language Group, where she developed a number of tangible interactive systems to facilitate collaborative and creative learning. Kimiko’s work has been presented at CHI, SIGGRAPH, CSCL, IUI, as well as exhibited at international venues such as Ars Electronica, Children’s Museum Kyoto, Japan, AIGA, and IDSA (Gold Award). Before joining UC Berkeley, Kimiko worked at IDEO as an interaction design and human factors specialist.Her research focuses on building new expressive tools that take advantage of people’s familiarity with the physical world, and studying how new media expand the interaction space and the change that could be brought out in the way people perceive this extended interaction space. Her research investigates the potential of new interactive media that push us to actively expand the way we perceive the world and make new meanings.OUR CONNECTION TO PHYSICAL OBJECTSHer work builds on people’s relationships with physical objects. Physical objects are charged with history, narratives, and memories of people, both the ones who created them and the ones who interacted with them. We usually do not have access to this information about our physical objects. Enabling access to it opens up a whole new set of possibilities, as it provides an extended space for design, communication, and learning. Right now, the link that allows us to access it is missing. Her research is about creating that link, and studying how those enabling technologies influence people’s lives.BREATHING NEW LIFE INTO OBJECTSShe believes that in the future, the memories of our interactions with both digital and physical objects should coexist, and even support each other in synergy. Her approach is to allow people to breathe a new kind of life into the physical objects they interact with. This has two meanings: One is that people can breathe new life into physical objects through the creation of new meaning with the object, be it via stories, illustrations, or ideas.

Title: Assistant Professor

Website: http://www.ischool.berkeley.edu/people/faculty/kimikoryokai

Email: kimiko@ischool.berkeley.edu

Phone: (415) 269-1513

Address: University of California, Berkeley 314 South Hall Berkeley, CA 94720 - 4600

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-kimiko-ryokai/

Personal Website Text Short: Kimiko Ryokai | UC Berkeley School of Information Skip to main content Submit Log in UC Berkeley Give Volunteer Contact Us Alumni Alumni Get Involved & Give Back Sign Up to Volunteer Stay Connected I School Slack Alumni News Alumni Events Alumni Accounts Career Support Log in About About Academic Mission Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Resources DEIBJ Leadership History Featured Profiles Featured Faculty Featured Alumni South Hall Work at the I School Subscribe to Email Announcements Logos & Style Guide Directions & Parking Contact Us The School of Information is UC Berkeley’s newest professional school. Located in the center of campus, the I School is a graduate research and education community committed to expanding access to information and to improving its usability, reliability, and credibility while preserving security and privacy. Programs Programs MIMS Program Admissions Career Outcomes Degree Requirements Paths Through the MIMS Degree Final Project Funding Your Education Admissions Events Visit Us Request Information 5th Year MIDS Program Career Outcomes Capstone Project MIDS Program Admissions Jack Larson Data for Good Fellowship Tuition & Fees Capstone Project Women in MIDS MIDS Curriculum News Request Information MICS Program Admissions MICS Student News Tuition & Fees Capstone Project Request Information Ph.D. Program Admissions Career Outcomes Degree Requirements Funding Your Education Dissertations Admissions Events Request Information Graduate Certificates Applied Data Science Certificate ICTD Certificate Citizen Clinic The School of Information offers four degrees: The Master of Information Management and Systems (MIMS) program educates information professionals to provide leadership for an information-driven world. The Master of Information and Data Science (MIDS) is an online degree preparing data science professionals to solve real-world problems. The 5th Year MIDS program is a streamlined path to a MIDS degree for Cal undergraduates. The Master of Information and Cybersecurity (MICS) is an online degree preparing cybersecurity leaders for complex cybersecurity challenges. Our Ph.D. in Information Science is a research program for next-generation scholars of the information age. Courses Courses Information Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule Fall 2024 Course Schedule Data Science Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule Cybersecurity Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule The School of Information's courses bridge the disciplines of information and computer science, design, social sciences, management, law, and policy. We welcome interest in our graduate-level Information classes from current UC Berkeley graduate and undergraduate students and community members. More information about signing up for classes. People People kimiko Faculty Ladder & Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Emeriti Students MIMS Students MIDS Students 5th Year MIDS Students MICS Students Ph.D. Students Staff Visitors Research Research Publications Centers & Labs Research Areas Computer-mediated Communication Data Science Design Entrepreneurship Human-computer Interaction (HCI) Information Economics Information Organization Information Policy Information Retrieval & Search Information Visualization Law Privacy Security Social & Cultural Studies Technology for Developing Regions User Experience Research Research by faculty members and doctoral students keeps the I School on the vanguard of contemporary information needs and solutions. The I School is also home to several active centers and labs, including the Center for Long-Term Cybersecurity (CLTC) , the Center for Technology, Society & Policy , and the BioSENSE Lab . Careers Careers For Employers Why Hire I School? Events Request a Resume Book Leadership Development Program Mailing List For Nonprofit and Government Employers For Students & Alumni Events Resources Leadership Development Program Advising Jobscan & Applicant Tracking Systems Resume & LinkedIn Review Resume Book I School graduate students and alumni have expertise in data science, user experience design & research, product management, engineering, information policy, cybersecurity, and more — learn more about hiring I School students and alumni . News News Press Coverage Alumni News I School Voices Speakers Celebrate Moments of Persistence, Resilience, and Camaraderie at 2024 Commencement On May 18, 2024, the School of Information welcomed 423 of 670 total graduating students from the Master of... Commencement Speaker and Net Neutrality Champion Gigi Sohn Speaks on the Importance of Tech Advocacy Gigi Sohn gave the keynote speech at the UC Berkeley School of Information May 2024 Commencement. Awards Honor May 2024 Graduates The School of Information’s May 2024 Commencement presented an opportunity to honor faculty and student achievements... The I School Graduate Scholars Program in 2024 The initiative is now known at the I School as the I School Graduate Scholars (ISGS) program, which... Events Events Distinguished Lecture Series I School Lectures Information Access Seminars CLTC Events For the I School Community Alumni Events Women in MIDS Events School of Information May 2024 Commencement May 18, 2024, 2:00 pm Parler Games: Folklore, Social Media, and Insurrection Apr 24, 2024, 12:30 pm to 1:45 pm Misinformation In and About Science Feb 21, 2024, 12:10 pm to 1:30 pm Insight and Oversights: Shaping the Future of Visual Analytics with AI Jan 31, 2024, 12:10 pm to 1:30 pm Kimiko Ryokai Associate Professor kimiko@ischool.berkeley.edu (415) 269-1513 307A South Hall ischool.berkeley.edu/~kimiko Focus Human-computer interaction, tangible user interfaces Research areas Design Human-computer Interaction (HCI) User Experience Research Biography Current Research My field of research is tangible embodied computing, a subfield of human-computer interaction (HCI). I study representation, physicality, and interactivity of personal data and information systems, particularly in the context of mental health, social networks, and educational applications. Education B.A., Linguistics and Psychology, SUNY Stony Brook, 1997 M.S., Media Arts and Sciences, MIT, 1999 Ph.D., Media Arts and Sciences, MIT, 2005 What is the best thing about working at the I School? There are so many things: first of all, the I School’s multidisciplinary yet strong academic curriculum, from theory to practice. Being part of the youngest school on campus that is constantly redefining itself is exciting. And of course, its amazing students and faculty members who are passionate about their endeavors. What Information issues interest you most? I am interested in the representation of information and how that representation influences the way people think about and work with the information. In particular, I am interested in how new user interface designs, such as tangible user interfaces, transform abstract and intangible information into more concrete and manipulable forms so that it can help people organize and manipulate ideas in a way the traditional media or the desktop interface could not. Your background is in Linguistics and Psychology, what ignited your interest and subsequent research in interactive media? When I took my first HCI course as an undergrad majoring in Linguistics and Psychology, I was so excited about the potential social scientists had in being part of the design of technologies. Since then, I have been striving to achieve the balance between the designer, inventor, and scientist in me. In your class, Interface Aesthetics, you look at how good design enhances the interaction between people - can you give us an example of "good design" and tell us why it works? Many say that good design comes from a marriage of function and beauty. Good design can also fulfill our emotional needs, and can even stand for who we are as humans. In addition, I would like good design to be something that can grow old with us. Something few people know about you? I grew up in Tokyo, Japan. When I was in high school, I spent 10 months in Texas as an exchange student. I lived with a wonderful host family on a ranch near Corpus Christi. That was my first original American culture experience. What keeps you up at night? “What if...?” questions. People kimiko Faculty Students Staff Visitors Recent courses taught Fall 2024 Info C262. Theory and Practice of Tangible User Interfaces Spring 2024 Info 375. Teaching Assistance Practicum Info C265. Interface Aesthetics Fall 2023 Info C262. Theory and Practice of Tangible User Interfaces Spring 2023 Info C265. Interface Aesthetics Spring 2022 Info C265. Interface Aesthetics Info 295. Doctoral Colloquium Info 295. Doctoral Colloquium 1 of 5 next › Recent publications 2022 Examining children’s design processes, perspective-taking, and collaboration when using VR head-mounted displays Shifting Design Perspectives: Touch, Co-Location, and Sharing Objects during the Pandemic Learning through negotiating conceptually generative perspectival complementarities: The case of geometry. Balance Board Math: “Being the graph” through the sense of balance for embodied self-regulation and learning Exploring Laughter Sound Visualizations for Self Reflection I School Ph.D. students Tyler Twohig Yangyang Yang Ji Su Yoo Last updated: May 23, 2024 Sign up for more information Find us on Facebook Find us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Connect on Linkedin Watch us on YouTube View Flickr Photos Read our Medium Publication Copyright 1995–2024 UC Regents Nondiscrimination | Accessibility | Privacy UC Berkeley Give Volunteer Contact Us Alumni Log in About Academic Mission Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Resources DEIBJ Leadership History Featured Profiles Featured Faculty Featured Alumni South Hall Work at the I School Subscribe to Email Announcements Logos & Style Guide Directions & Parking Contact Us Programs MIMS Program Admissions Career Outcomes Degree Requirements Paths Through the MIMS Degree Final Project Funding Your Education Admissions Events Visit Us Request Information 5th Year MIDS Program Career Outcomes Capstone Project MIDS Program Admissions Jack Larson Data for Good Fellowship Tuition & Fees Capstone Project Women in MIDS MIDS Curriculum News Request Information MICS Program Admissions MICS Student News Tuition & Fees Capstone Project Request Information Ph.D. Program Admissions Career Outcomes Degree Requirements Funding Your Education Dissertations Admissions Events Request Information Graduate Certificates Applied Data Science Certificate ICTD Certificate Citizen Clinic Application Courses Information Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule Fall 2024 Course Schedule Data Science Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule Cybersecurity Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule People kimiko Faculty Ladder & Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Emeriti Students MIMS Students MIDS Students 5th Year MIDS Students MICS Students Ph.D. Students Staff Visitors Research Publications Centers & Labs Research Areas Computer-mediated Communication Data Science Design Entrepreneurship Human-computer Interaction (HCI) Information Economics Information Organization Information Policy Information Retrieval & Search Information Visualization Law Privacy Security Social & Cultural Studies Technology for Developing Regions User Experience Research Careers For Employers Why Hire I School? Events Request a Resume Book For Nonprofit and Government Employers Leadership Development Program Mailing List For Students & Alumni Events Resources Leadership Development Program Advising Jobscan & Applicant Tracking Systems Resume & LinkedIn Review Resume Book News Press Coverage Alumni News I School Voices Events Distinguished Lecture Series I School Lectures Information Access Seminars CLTC Events For the I School Community Alumni Events Women in MIDS Events

