Name: Kit Lam

Description: Research InterestsDr. Lam is an expert in combinatorial chemistry, chemical biology, drug development, molecular imaging, nanotheranostics and medical oncology. His laboratory is engaged in the development and application of combinatorial library methods for basic research and drug discovery. In addition to cancer drug development and drug delivery, he is also interested in exosomes, membrane active peptides, signal transduction, antibiotics development, molecular immunology, chemical microarray, and proteomics. Dr. Lam is both a board-certified medical oncologist and a laboratory investigator. He is distinguished for revolutionizing cancer diagnosis and treatment and is acclaimed for his pioneering role in the field of combinatorial chemistry and developing the novel one-bead-one-compound technology, which rapidly screens millions of chemicals at one time to identify those that bind to diseased cells. The tool is advancing the early detection and precise delivery of treatments for brain, breast, prostate, pancreatic, lymphoma and other cancers. In addition, it is advancing the discovery of imaging agents that produce highly detailed molecular profiles of diseases for improved diagnosis and tracking medication effectiveness. His development and applications of combinatorial chemistry and other chemical methods look to solve many biomedical problems. Dr. Lam invented the “one-bead-one-compound” (OBOC) combinatorial library method, filed the patents (the basic patents on the OBOC technology was issued in 1996, 1997, and 1999 by the US patent office), and published the technique in Nature in 1991. The OBOC combinatorial library approach is unique and truly an ultra-high throughput method, as thousands to millions of chemical compounds (peptides, peptidomimetics, small molecules, nucleic acids, and macrocyclic natural product like molecules) can be efficiently synthesized and screened in parallel in a relatively short time.In addition to expanding the use of one-bead-one-compound technology, Dr. Lam’s research also includes developing a blood test for ovarian-cancer detection, utilizing nanoparticle carriers for drug delivery and synthesizing cancer-fighting molecules with less-toxic side effects. He is currently collaborating with faculty from the Veterinarian School of Medicine on translating nanotherapeutic and nano-imaging agents in canine and feline patients.Research AreasCancer Pharmacology, Molecular Biology, Oncology, Molecular Cell Biology

Title: Professor of Medicine, Chief, Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine UC Davis Medical Center

Website: https://basicscience.ucdmc.ucdavis.edu/Lam_Lab/

Email: kit.lam@ucdmc.ucdavis.edu

Phone: 916-734-3772

Address: Department of Internal Medicine UCDMC
4501 X Street
Sacramento, CA 95817

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-kit-lam/

Personal Website Text Short: Home | Lam Lab Top ↑ Toggle navigation Home Research Research Overview Projects Publications Our Team Principal Investigator Collaborators Research Faculty Postdoctoral Scholars Graduate Students Undergraduate Students Alumni Staff Just for Fun Resources Contact Our Research The main focus of the Lam Lab lies in discovering revolutionary and innovative methods of disease treatment on a nano-scale and molecular medicine, drug discovery, nanoparticle and drug-delivery techniques Read More Our Projects We have recently developed a series of PEG-oligocholic acid telodendrimer based micellar nanoparticles for the delivery of various imaging agents and chemotherapeutic drugs for the imaging and treatment of cancers Read More Our Team The Lam Lab research team is one of the best of its kind. We have a wide range of members from many different academic and cultural backgrounds working together in a multidisciplicary way designed Read More Announcements Dr. Kit Lam was honored December 21, 2018 as the inaugural holder of the Sue Jane Leung Presidential Chair in Cancer Research. Read more about this exciting news » Research Gallery Gallery of the research images! Erk1/2 Activation in Jurkat cells (LLP2A-focused OBOC combinatorial Library) Neutrophil Targeting Agents Unique Photochemo-Immuno-Nanoplatform against Orthotopic Xenograft Oral Cancer and Metastatic Syngeneic Breast Cancer Rainbow Beads Transformable peptide nanoparticles aggregate in the lysosome and cause disruption A vesicle changing its morphology when in contact with newly discovered peptide. The rodent eye as a non-invasive window for understanding cancer nanotherapeutics Interaction of the peptide with a molecular rotor dye under confocal microscope in bright field, DAPI and Cy5 channel Bioluminescence and NIRF of subcutaneous and orthotopic glioblastoma Embryonic bodies on beads Brain tumor injection Co-localization of Death Ligand “LLS2” with Galactin-1 in cancer cells How to Reach Us? Phone : (916) 734 - 0902 Fax : (916) 734 - 6415 Oak Park Research Building, 2700 Stockton Blvd., Ste. 2301. Sacramento CA 95817 The Lam Lab is located at the UC Davis Medical Center in the Oak Park Research Building across from Cancer Survivors Park, 2700, Stockton Blvd Ste 2301 Sacramento, CA 95871.

