Name: Kris Fallon

Description: Kris Fallon is the Visiting Assistant Professor in Digital Cultures at UC Davis, and serve as Associate Director of the Mellon Research Initiative in Digital Culture. He teaches courses in the history and theory of Film and Digital Media in both Cinema and Technocultural Studies Program (CaTS) as well as the Science and Technology Studies program. Before coming to Davis he completed his PhD at UC Berkeley in Film & Media and the Center for New Media.

Title: Visiting Assistant Professor in Digital Cultures

Website: http://www.krisfallon.com/

Email: kfallon@ucdavis.edu

Phone: nan

Address: Cinema and Technocultural Studies Program University of California, Davis One Shields Avenue Davis, CA 95616-8701

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/kris-fallon/

Personal Website Text Short: Kris Fallon – Cinema & Digital Media | UC Davis Skip to content Kris Fallon Cinema & Digital Media | UC Davis Home Publications Projects Classes Contact CV More Back Home I am an Assistant Professor in Cinema & Digital Media at UC Davis and a faculty member in the ModLab . I teach courses in the history and theory of Film and Digital Media in both Cinema and Digital Media Program (the program formerly known as CaTS) as well as the Science and Technology Studies program. I work with graduate students in Performance Studies , Cultural Studies and other humanities programs. Before coming to Davis I completed my PhD at UC Berkeley in Film & Media and the Center for New Media . Research My research looks at documentary practices across a range of media, from photography and film to data visualization and other digital forms.  I’m interested in the different forms we utilize to represent the world to ourselves and try to persuade others to share this same view.  My current book project looks specifically at the collision of documentary film and digital media in the United States post 9/11.  I demonstrate that the political conflict of the Bush Era pushed activists and artists to experiment with a range of tools that blended image making with other technologies including social networks, games, virtual environments and data analytics. Contact Asst Professor in Cinema & Digital Media 224 Cruess Hall kfallon[at]ucdavis.edu @krisfallon on Twitter Office Hours Fall '19 Monday 10-12 by appt. Winter '20 Tuesday 10-12 Spring '20 Tuesday 10-12 Upcoming Events on Campus Faculty Preview: The Year Ahead in Exhibitions at the Manetti Shrem Museum May 23, 2023 Book Talk: Jean-Baptiste, Multiracial Identities in Colonial French Africa May 19, 2023 Resource-use & specialization in rural change in Europe and the Americas: Politics, Reform, & Revolution May 19, 2023 Davis Feminist Film Festival 2023 May 19, 2023 Black Feminist Poetics against Displacement and Colonialism May 12, 2023 Theory as History: A Conversation with Jairus Banaji May 11, 2023 Artist Lecture: Shimon Attie May 4, 2023 RELIGION & MEDICINE: EAST AND WEST May 4, 2023 Beth Piatote, “Translating the Land Through Language.” May 3, 2023 Hemispheric Institute on the Americas May 1, 2023 Home Publications Projects Classes Contact CV Kris Fallon , Proudly powered by WordPress.

