Name: Laurel Larsen

Description: My research integrates new methods emerging in the disciplines of information theory and complex systems theory with the earth and environmental sciences. I am particularly interested in data-driven techniques to understanding environmental feedbacks and generating predictions about drought and other climate anomalies or flows of surface water, or to trace pathways of spatial connectivity to determine how contaminants are moving through a wetland or which groundwater sources are contributing to salmon habitat. The focus on how we can use sensor technology and emerging data science techniques to forecast future environmental change and better strategize for the management of groundwater and surface water-dependent ecosystems is directly in line with the CITRIS mission.

Title: Assistant Professor

Website: http://www.esdlberkeley.com/

Email: laurel@berkeley.edu

Phone: nan

Address: nan

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/laurel-larsen/

Personal Website Text Short: Environmental Systems Dynamics Laboratory | Departments of Geography & Civil and Environ Engineering, UC Berkeley Environmental Systems Dynamics Laboratory Departments of Geography & Civil and Environ Engineering, UC Berkeley Skip to content Home Haikus Software Teaching Complex Environmental Systems-Spring 2014 Schedule and Resources GEOG c136: Terrestrial Hydrology Teaching Tool for Landscape Model Development Water Resources and Environment (GEOG c135/ESPM c133) Complex Environmental Systems 2013 Course Feedback Lecture slides Schedule and Resources Download media Download media Download media Download media Research Approach Improved hydrologic forecasting Particle capture experiments Laboratory People Publications Prospective Graduate Students News Archive Welcome to the Environmental Systems Dynamics Laboratory! We quantitatively study the ways in which physical, biological, and human components of the environment are linked to understand how critical ecosystems and the functions that they perform may change over time. Water flows as a theme through this research as one of the components of the environment most critical to life and indeed, perhaps the single most dominant factor sculpting the geography of Earth’s natural and human landscapes. Links and recent collaborators Berkeley Geography Moore Foundation Data-Driven Discovery Program National Science Foundation USGS Hydroecology of Flowing Waters Coastal Systems Ecology Lab, LSU Carlson Lab, UC Berkeley David Kaplan, University of Florida Dorothy Merritts, Franklin & Marshall College Variano Lab, UC Berkeley Maarten Eppinga, Utrecht University Gitlab USGS NWIS site Image Gallery Tracer test in an urban stream in 2011. The metabolically active dye turns pink after serving as a substrate for microbial respiration. Overhead view of the strikingly patterned ridge and slough landscape, Florida Everglades. Maintaining and restoring this patterning is a focus of current management efforts. Vacuuming the Everglades. Shop vacs are used to collect flocculated organic sediment. Simulated Everglades ridge and slough landscape. Ridges are red, and sloughs are blue. Simulation of a floodplain with multithreaded channels and vegetation. Red color is proportional to vegetation density. Boulder cross-vane at Accotink Creek, VA. This structure is commonly used in the natural channel design method of stream restoration. A storm brews over the Everglades. Example of pond-and-plug restoration of wet meadows, Plumas National Forest, CA. Wet meadow in Sagehen Reserve, CA. Marissa Goodman collects sediment samples from a tidal marsh. Dry meander bend in wet meadow restoration project, CA. Prof. Larsen, Kayla Shulte, and Aaron Blair at Big Spring Run, PA Danielle Watts surveys Great Marsh, PA from a treestand Danielle Watts prepares to paddle back in time at Great Marsh Danielle Watts operates the Cohesive Strength Meter Danielle Watts, Kayla Schulte, and Aaron Blair collect clip plots at Big Spring Run Prof. Larsen stands amongst Carex at Great Marsh, PA Field site at Wax Lake Delta, Louisiana, showing the 10-m-long in situ flume used to conduct tracer tests of the movement of fine sediment through different vegetation communities News and Announcements March 30, 2021 Sam, Jordan, and Laurel's article, "A Functional Form for Fine Sediment Interception in Vegetated Environments," is available in the open-access journal Geosciences . The article provides a new model for particle capture based on the analysis of 80 flume experiments in the literature, including a dozen or so carried out right here in our lab. Congrats to Sam and the other authors! March 20, 2021 You can now access Dino's article on predictors of landslide size. Congrats, Dino! March 17, 2021 We are proud to announce that Edom's article, "Sources of Hydrological Model Uncertainties and Advances in Their Analysis," was selected for an Editor's Choice Award by the journal Water . The article examines parameter, input, structural, and observation uncertainty in hydrological models, and makes a detailed comparison of several methods of analyzing and addressing these different sources. Congratulations Edom, Laurel, and other coauthors! March 17, 2021 Jordan, Candace, Justin, and Laurel's article "Effects of Stem Density and Reynolds Number on Fine Sediment Interception by Emergent Vegetation," is officially published in the journal Geosciences . This article is the culmination of several years of laboratory experiments in the lab's Ecogeomorphology Flume and it provides emprical data on particle capture by aquatic macrophytes that are important for sedimentation models and projections of wetland viability in changing sea level contexts. Congrats to the flume lab team! February 17, 2021 The Daily Cal picked up Dino's article too! We're excited to share a link to the article once it comes out, so stay tuned. February 15, 2021 Check out an article about Dino's PNAS article on Berkeley News! January 25, 2021 Congratulations to Dino, Laurel, and the other co-authors, for the acceptance of their research article by the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS)! The article is titled "controls on the size distributions of shallow landslides," and will be coming to library shelves near you soon! January 18, 2021 Our lab is happy to welcome Galen Gorski and Omar Wani, two new postdoctoral researchers. Stay tuned for more info as their work with Laurel et al. takes form. January 14, 2021 The lab is glad to announce that Laurel successfully ran the gauntlet of returning to the US from her sabbatical in Finland during a pandemic. She'll be based in Sacramento for a while as she takes on the role of the Delta Lead Scientist with USGS and the Delta Stewardship Council. Old news Environmental Systems Dynamics Laboratory Proudly powered by WordPress.

