Name: Lilian Davila

Description: Lilian P. Davila received her B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. from the University of California, Davis in materials science and engineering. She is currently a scientist at the University of California, Merced.Davila was a recipient of highly competitive postdoctoral fellowships prior to her joining UC Merced. She was awarded a Ford Postdoctoral Fellowship from 2008–09, a prestigious nation-wide recognition. Previously, she was awarded with a UC President’s Postdoctoral Fellow at the University of California, Merced and Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) from 2006–08.Lilian Davila earned a Ph.D. in materials science and engineering at the University of California, Davis, where she was awarded the SEGRF fellowship from LLNL to pursue her doctoral dissertation in computational materials science and engineering. Her current and future research interests include nanostructures, biomaterials, porous materials, and “materials by design” using experiments and simulations. Davila established three major research areas on the effects of structure and size of materials on properties and performance at various scales via integrative approaches. The overall goal of her work is to contribute to the advancement of science by studying fundamental principles governing materials and their properties at various length scales for applications in technology, medicine and the environment.Davila is a passionate mentor and an advocate of team-focused experiential learning as a way to foster leadership and innovation.Research interests: nanomaterials, biomaterials, environmental materials, target applications for technology, medicine and the environment, material design and prototyping, materials life cycle and assessment methods.

Title: Assistant Professional Researcher

Website: https://eng.ucmerced.edu/people/ldavila

Email: ldavila@ucmerced.edu

Phone: nan

Address: University of California, Merced

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/lilian-davila/

Personal Website Text Short: UCM Directory You need to enable JavaScript to run this app.

