Name: Lisa Yeo

Description: Dr. Lisa Yeo is an Assistant Professor in the Ernest & Julio Management Program at UC Merced who works to help organizations understand how to safely govern the data and information they need to compete. By focusing on people and process, she believes that organizations can design and build information systems that make it easy to protect privacy and prevent security breaches without requiring extensive investments in security layers after the fact. Lisa holds a B. Math in Applied Math from the University of Waterloo and an MBA and PhD (Operations & Information Systems) from the University of Alberta.Research interest(s):information security, privacy, collaborative knowledge production, economics of information systems

Title: Assistant Professor

Website: http://faculty.ucmerced.edu/lyeo2/

Email: lyeo2@ucmerced.edu

Phone: nan

Address: nan

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/lisa-yeo/

Personal Website Text Short: OpenScholar Skip to main content Home Toggle navigation Toggle Secondary navigation Toggle Search Primary menu HOME Research Lab News Lyeo2 M. Lisa Yeo I am an Assistant Professor in the Ernest & Julio Management Program at UC Merced. I am a collaborative problem solver who helps decision makers understand their operational challenges and identify solutions. I  help organizations understand how to safely govern the data and information they need to compete. I challenge students & industry to consider the security & privacy impacts of IS&T so that they can build a solid foundation and respect for different experiences with technology. By focusing on people and process, I believe that organizations can design and build information systems that make it easy to protect privacy and prevent security breaches without requiring extensive investments in security layers after the fact. Prior to my return to academia, I worked in information security for 15 years as both a technical specialist and a business adviser. During this time, I wrote the book Personal Firewalls, protected the infrastructure for the Alberta Legislature, and guided the secure connection of all public libraries in Alberta as part of the Alberta SuperNet project. I hold a B. Math in Applied Math from the University of Waterloo and an MBA and PhD (Operations & Information Systems) from the University of Alberta. Google Scholar: Lisa Yeo For more information, see CV (October 2022) (PDF). Search Search Blog posts by month November 2019 (1) July 2018 (1) Secondary menu University of California, Merced 5200 North Lake Rd. Merced, CA 95343 T: (209) 228-4400 © 2024 About UC Merced Directions Directory Privacy/Legal Site Feedback UC Regents Accessibility Site List Powered by Open Scholar ® Admin Login

