Name: Madan Dharmar

Description: Madan Dharmar is an associate professor in residence at the Betty Irene School of Nursing at UC Davis and the Department of Pediatrics at the UC Davis School of Medicine. In his School of Nursing role, he prepares and supports doctoral students in various research settings and is an investigator for the Patient and Provider Engagement and Empowerment Through Technology (P2E2T2) Program.A physician, clinical epidemiologist and federally funded researcher, Dharmar’s area of interest is health services research and mobile-health technology, or mHealth. His research focus is in the development of quality measures to evaluate health care and apply innovative technologies to improve health-care delivery. He is currently the principal investigator and director for the federally funded, Pediatric Emergency Assistance for Newborns Using Telehealth (PEANUT) Program. He is also an integral part of an interprofessional research team that was recently awarded $2.1 million in funding from the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to study how to improve the of health of individuals with diabetes.He earned his medical degree from Madras Medical College in Chennai, India in 1995, where he also completed an internship and fellowship. He earned a Doctor of Philosophy degree in Epidemiology from UC Davis. He has written several book chapters and has been published in several peer-reviewed journals includingPediatrics, Critical Care Medicine, Journal of Pediatrics, Telemedicine and e-Health, and Annals of Emergency Medicine.Honors and AwardsPreceptor of the Year Award. East Kentucky Family and Community Medicine Residency Program, University of Kentucky, 2005-06Merit Certificate, American College of Physicians annual meeting, 2003Resident Teacher Award. SIU School of Medicine., 2002-03Select Recent PublicationsSalahudeen A, Kumar V, Madan N et al. Sustained Low Efficiency Dialysis in the Continuous Mode (C-SLED): Dialysis Efficacy, Clinical Outcomes and Survival Predictors in Critically Ill Cancer Patients. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol 4:1338-1346, 2009Madan A, Madan N, O’brien J. Cytomegalovirus Colitis: a rare cause of massive lower GI bleed in an immunocompetent patient. Am J Gastroenterol 2003;98:9(Supplement):S178Robinson R, Shahida S, Madan N et al. Transient Parkinsonism in West Nile Virus Encephalitis. Am J Med 2003 Aug 15; 115(3):252-3Madan A, Hussam J, Madan N, Minocha A. Colonic Varices: An Unusual Presentation of Superior Mesenteric Vein Thrombosis. Am J Gastroenterol 2002;97:9(Supplement):S153-154

Title: Associate Professor in Residence

Website: http://www.ucdmc.ucdavis.edu/nursing/ourteam/faculty/Dharmar_bio.html

Email: mdharmar@ucdavis.edu

Phone: 916-734-2354

Address: Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing University of California 4610 X Street Suite 4202 Sacramento, CA 95817

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/dr-madan-dharmar/

Personal Website Text Short: Madan Dharmar, M.B.B.S., Ph.D. | Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing at UC Davis Skip to main content News | Careers | Giving | UC Davis Health Toggle navigation About Overview Contact us Join our email list Connected community Vision and mission School of Nursing strategic plan A decade of discovery Leadership messages Founders Why UC Davis? Living in Sacramento Diversity and inclusion Full diversity statement Diversity and inclusion committee Team agreements Team agreements awards UC Davis Health HEDI office Students Current PhD students Current DNP-FNP students Current master's degree students Student and alumni features Betty Irene Moore Hall Overview Learning spaces Simulation suites Academics Overview Philosophy and methods Codes of conduct Education features Heather M. Young Postdoctoral Fellowship Frequently asked questions Accreditation Student and teaching awards Student wellness Programs DNP — Family Nurse Practitioner DNP — Nurse Anesthesia PhD MHS — Physician Assistant Studies MS — Family Nurse Practitioner MS — Leadership MSN — Master's Entry Program in Nursing PMHNP postgraduate certificate Certificate programs — Health Professions Educator Certificate — Family Caregiving Certificate — Enhancing Patient Safety and Quality Improvement in Healthcare Certificate — Advancing Health Equity Series Graduate Academic Unit Certificate Betty Irene Moore Fellowship Curriculum Fellows News Publications Other academics and training Family Caregiving Institute NP residency Preceptors and clinical training SPLICE Admissions and aid Overview Admissions statement International graduate requirements Frequently asked questions Programs DNP — Family Nurse Practitioner PhD MHS — Physician Assistant Studies MSN — Master's Entry Program in Nursing PMHNP postgraduate certificate User resources Prospective students Current students Alumni Friends and supporters Career opportunities Research Overview Research features Heather M. Young Postdoctoral Scholar Family Caregiving Institute Overview Our team Education Research projects News and events Betty Irene Moore Fellowship Curriculum Fellows News Publications PERINATAL ORIGINS OF DISPARITIES (POD) CENTER About Research Resources News & Events Funding Opportunities Our team Overview Leadership National Advisory Council Nursing Science and Health-Care Leadership Graduate Group Faculty Clinician educators Postdoctoral scholars Staff Volunteer positions Volunteer clinical professors Clinical preceptors Advanced Preceptor Affiliates Join our team Prospective faculty information guide Why UC Davis? Living in Sacramento Alumni Overview Alumni information Giving Overview Donate now Ways to give Alumni and events Stories of support News Newsroom School of Nursing press releases School of Nursing in the news Features Publications Videos Happenings Calendar of events University of California, Davis UC Davis Health Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing Madan Dharmar, M.B.B.S., Ph.D. Madan Dharmar, M.B.B.S., Ph.D. Associate Professor in Residence Madan Dharmar is an associate professor in residence at the Betty Irene School of Nursing at UC Davis and the Department of Pediatrics at the UC Davis School of Medicine. In his School of Nursing role, he prepares and supports doctoral students in various research settings and is an investigator for the Patient and Provider Engagement and Empowerment Through Technology (P2E2T2) Program. A physician, clinical epidemiologist and federally funded researcher, Dharmar’s area of interest is health services research and mobile-health technology, or mHealth. His research focus is in the development of quality measures to evaluate health care and apply innovative technologies to improve health-care delivery. He is currently the principal investigator and director for the federally funded, Pediatric Emergency Assistance for Newborns Using Telehealth (PEANUT) Program. He is also an integral part of an interprofessional research team that was recently awarded $2.1 million in funding from the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to study how to improve the of health of individuals with diabetes. He earned his medical degree from Madras Medical College in Chennai, India in 1995, where he also completed an internship and fellowship. He earned a Doctor of Philosophy degree in Epidemiology from UC Davis. He has written several book chapters and has been published in several peer-reviewed journals including Pediatrics, Critical Care Medicine, Journal of Pediatrics, Telemedicine and e-Health, and Annals of Emergency Medicine . Contact Information: Phone: 916-734-2354 | Email: mdharmar@ucdavis.edu Toggle navigation Our team Leadership National Advisory Council Nursing Science and Health-Care Leadership Graduate Group Faculty Postdoctoral scholars Staff Volunteer positions Volunteer clinical professors Clinical preceptors Advanced Preceptor Affiliates Join our team Faculty, postdoctoral fellow, N.P. resident and staff openings Prospective faculty information guide Why UC Davis? Living in Sacramento Quick links Master’s Entry Program in Nursing M.H.S. physician assistant program D.N.P.-F.N.P. Ph.D. program P.M.H.N.P. postgraduate certificate Join our email list Contact us Join our team News More news » Happenings May 21 — Physician assistant faculty presents, leads UC Davis team at national conference Emily Thatcher, a physician assistant (P.A.) and assistant professor at the Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing at UC Davis, taught an emergency medicine ultrasound Point of Care Ultrasound (POCUS) workshop at the American Academy of Physician Associates (AAPA) National Conference in Houston. She also supervised the inaugural UC Davis PA student POCUS team. The second-year students competed against 50 other P.A. programs in the national ultrasound competition and came in 12 th place. iScan tested their knowledge in bedside radiology, diagnosis and management of medical conditions. AAPA is the national professional society for P.A.s and represents more than 68,000 P.A.s across all medical and surgical specialties in all 50 states. Read more Happenings... Innovation in California’s Health Care Landscape Read the 2023 edition of the Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing annual magazine. School of Nursing Features See the latest stories... 2023 Health Professions Higher Education Excellence in Diversity Award Read more » Healthy Aging in a Digital World Learn more » Quick Links User resources Contact us Join our mailing list Careers UC Davis UC Davis Health Encompasses School of Medicine Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing at UC Davis Medical Group Medical Center Connect with Us Stay connected with what′s happening at Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing at UC Davis. Back to top Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing at UC Davis Betty Irene Moore Hall  |   2570 48th St.  |  Sacramento, CA 95817  

		
		 |  
		Phone: 916-734-2145 © 2014 UC Regents. All Rights Reserved

		
			 | Legal | About us | Contact us

