Name: Maggi Kelly

Description: I am Professor and Cooperative Extension Specialist in the Environmental Science, Policy and Management department and affiliated Professor of Geography at UC Berkeley. I study the drivers, patterns and consequences of environmental change across California’s spatially complex, socially diverse and dynamic landscapes using integrated geospatial tools. My work using GIS, remote sensing, historical data archives, web infrastructure, and participatory technologies enables interdisciplinary collaboration, data-rich and analysis-intensive geospatial research, and active outreach across a number of academic domains with significant societal impact.The systems I focus on vary in type and scale, and include Sierra Nevada forests, San Francisco Bay wetlands, the California delta, and urban neighborhoods; but all of them are managed landscapes with a complex spatial structure that can be mapped using geospatial tools, and all of them have an interested group of stakeholders for whom the research results have importance.My work using GIS, remote sensing, web infrastructure, and participatory technologies enables interdisciplinary collaboration, data-rich and analysis-intensive geospatial research, and active outreach across a number of academic domains with significant societal impact. I provide spatial inputs to models, scale biophysical processes from plot to landscape, estimate uncertainty, and visualize future scenarios from complex data sources. These technologies also play an important role as integrator in terms of science engagement: providing entry-points to community discussions about contentious issues, facilitating new avenues for broad data collection and multi-party knowledge, and providing common frameworks for visualization of landscape processes and management outcomes. I have published over 100 papers, chapters and reports in a range of ecological and geospatial journals.

Title: Professor

Website: http://kellylab.berkeley.edu/

Email: maggi@berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 642.7272

Address: University of California, Berkeley
130 Mulford Hall #3114
Berkeley, CA 94720-3114

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/maggi-kelly/

Personal Website Text Short: Kelly Research & Outreach Lab Kelly Research & Outreach Lab Kellylab About Work People Publications Blog Login Kelly Research & Outreach Lab Kellylab / About / Work / People / Publications / Blog / Login / Kelly Research & Outreach Lab mapping for a changing california Kellylab Kelly Research & Outreach Lab Kellylab / About / Work / People / Publications / Blog / Login / Welcome to the Kellylab page! Welcome to the Kellylab website. Here I try to capture information about myself - Maggi Kelly - and my lab group. Our motto is "mapping for a changing California", and we use a range of geospatial data and analytics – from spatial modeling, remote sensing, drones, lidar, historical archives, surveys, participatory mapping, and the field - to gain insights about how and why California landscapes are changing, and what that change means for those who live on, use, and manage our lands. Here you will find information on people in our lab, our projects, and some connections to other groups and sites of interest. For more on geospatial technology on campus and around the state, check out the geospatial innovation facility ( GIF ), and the ANR Statewide Program on Informatics and GIS ( IGIS ). Enjoy, connect on twitter @nmaggikelly , check out the blog, and stay in touch. 2023 Welcome The images above are from GoogleEarth, and organized in color order: ROYGBIV. Aren't they pretty? Want to know what we are up to? Check out the About page (about me, Maggi Kelly), the Work page (about my current work obsessions), the Publications page, and the Gallery page. Enjoy! Also: My CV / my Google Scholar page / my Research Gate page. Copyright © 2016, Maggi Kelly. All rights reserved. Terms of Use

