Name: Martin Wainwright

Description: He received his Bachelor’s degree in Mathematics from University of Waterloo, and his Ph.D. degree in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS) from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), for which he was awarded the George M. Sprowls Prize from the MIT EECS department, 2002. He joined the faculty at UC Berkeley in Fall 2004, with a joint appointment between the Department of Statistics and the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences. He has received an NSF-CAREER Award (2006), an Alfred P. Sloan Foundation Research Fellowship (2005), an Okawa Research Grant in Information and Telecommunications (2005), the 1967 Fellowship from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (1996–2000), and several outstanding conference paper awards.

Title: Associate Professor

Website: http://www.eecs.berkeley.edu/Faculty/Homepages/wainwright.html

Email: wainwrig@eecs.berkeley.edu

Phone: (510)643-1978

Address: University of California, Berkeley
263 Cory Hall
Berkeley, CA 94720

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/martin-wainwright/

Personal Website Text Short: Martin Wainwright | EECS at UC Berkeley Skip to Content Expand Search Form Collapse Search Form Expand Main Menu Collapse Main Menu Search for: Search For Students For Faculty/Staff Industry News Events Give Search for: Search About About Expand Submenu About About Overview History Expand Submenu The First Women of EECS Joseph Thomas Gier Diversity Expand Submenu Hear From Women in EECS Broadening Participation in EECS Visiting By the Numbers Special Events Expand Submenu 2022-23 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 The Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) at UC Berkeley offers one of the strongest research and instructional programs in this field anywhere in the world. Blog Academics Academics Expand Submenu Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Admissions & Programs Expand Submenu CS Major EECS Major EECS/CS Program Comparison Chart Second Bachelor's Degree Summer Research Cal Day Graduate Admissions & Programs Expand Submenu Grad Admissions FAQ Industry-Oriented Programs Research-Oriented Programs Fellowships Adding the EECS/CS M.S. From Another Department Recommended Coursework For Current Students Expand Submenu ed | EECS 101 Courses Expand Submenu EE Courses CS Courses Unlike many institutions of similar stature, regular EE and CS faculty teach the vast majority of our courses, and the most exceptional teachers are often also the most exceptional researchers. View Courses Research Research Expand Submenu Research Research Overview Areas Centers & Labs Colloquium Expand Submenu Archive BEARS Symposium Expand Submenu Archive Technical Reports Ph.D. Dissertations Research is the foundation of Berkeley EECS. Faculty, students, and staff work together on cutting-edge projects that cross disciplinary boundaries to improve everyday life and make a difference. EECS Research People People Expand Submenu People People Overview Directory Leadership Faculty Expand Submenu In Memoriam Students Expand Submenu Student Awards Student Organizations Staff Expand Submenu Student Affairs Faculty  Support Course Support Facilities and Engineering Services Financial Services HR IT Support Industrial & Public Relations Alumni Expand Submenu EE Distinguished Alumni CS Distinguished Alumni EECS faculty, students, staff, and alumni are central to our success as one of the most thriving and distinguished departments on the Berkeley campus. Latest News Connect Connect Expand Submenu Connect Connect Overview Support EECS Expand Submenu EECS Excellence Fund Memorial Funds K-12 Outreach Student Affairs Faculty Positions Staff Positions Contact Expand Submenu In an Emergency Consider reaching out for a conversation, attending a department seminar or conference, viewing a lecture on any one of our public channels, or supporting us via a gift to the university. You can help strengthen our dedication to education and outreach, solidify close ties to industry, and nourish a supportive and inclusive culture. Contact us Home / People / Faculty / Martin Wainwright Martin Wainwright Research Areas Artificial Intelligence (AI) Control, Intelligent Systems, and Robotics (CIR) Information, Data, Network, and Communication Sciences (IDNCS) Signal Processing (SP) Theory (THY) Machine learning Research Centers Berkeley Artificial Intelligence Research Lab (BAIR) Berkeley Laboratory for Information and System Sciences (BLISS) Center for the Theoretical Foundations of Learning, Inference, Information, Intelligence, Mathematics and Microeconomics at Berkeley (CLIMB) Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing (SITC) Biography Martin Wainwright is currently a professor at University of California at Berkeley, with a joint appointment between the Department of Statistics and the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS).  He received a Bachelor's degree in Mathematics from University of Waterloo, Canada, and Ph.D. degree in EECS from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).  His research interests include high-dimensional statistics, information theory, statistical machine learning, and optimization theory. He has been awarded an Alfred P. Sloan Foundation Fellowship (2005), Best Paper Awards from the IEEE Signal Processing Society (2008), and IEEE Communications Society (2010); the Joint Paper Prize (2012) from IEEE Information Theory and Communication Societies; a Medallion Lectureship (2013) from the Institute of Mathematical Statistics; a Section Lecturer at the International Congress of Mathematicians (2014); and the COPSS Presidents' Award (2014) from the Joint Statistical Societies. Selected Publications W. Mou, M. Yi-An, M. Wainwright, P. Bartlett, and M. Jordan, "High-order Langevin diffusion yields an accelerated MCMC algorithm," Journal of Machine Learning Research , vol. 22, pp. 1-48, March 2021. N. Shah, S. Balakrishnan, and M. Wainwright, " Feeling the bern: Adaptive estimators for Bernoulli probabilities of pairwise comparisons ," in IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT) , 2016, pp. 1153--1157. N. Shah, S. Balakrishnan, and M. Wainwright, " Feeling the Bern: Adaptive Estimators for Bernoulli Probabilities of Pairwise Comparisons ," in IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT) , 2016. N. Shah, S. Balakrishnan, and M. Wainwright, " A Permutation-based Model for Crowd Labeling: Optimal Estimation and Robustness ," UC Berkeley, June 2016. N. Shah, S. Balakrishnan, A. Guntuboyina, and M. Wainwright, " Stochastically Transitive Models for Pairwise Comparisons: Statistical and Computational Issues ," UC Berkeley, 2015. N. Shah and M. Wainwright, " Simple, Robust and Optimal Ranking from Pairwise Comparisons ," UC Berkeley, Dec. 2015. N. Shah, S. Balakrishnan, B. Joseph, A. Parekh, K. Ramchandran, and M. Wainwright, "Estimation from Pairwise Comparisons: Sharp Minimax Bounds with Topology Dependence," in AISTATS, San Diego, May 2015 , 2015. R. Rajagopal, M. Wainwright, and P. Varaiya, " Universal quantile estimation with feedback in the communication-constrained setting ," in Proc. 2006 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2006) , Piscataway, NJ: IEEE Press, 2006, pp. 836-840. X. Nguyen, M. Wainwright, and M. Jordan, " Nonparametric decentralized detection using kernel methods ," IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing , vol. 53, no. 11, pp. 4053-4066, Nov. 2005. M. Wainwright, T. S. Jaakkola, and A. S. Willsky, " A new class of upper bounds on the log partition function ," IEEE Transactions on Information Theory , vol. 51, no. 7, pp. 2313-2335, July 2005. J. Feldman, M. Wainwright, and D. R. Karger, " Using linear programming to decode binary linear codes ," IEEE Transactions on Information Theory , vol. 51, no. 3, pp. 954-972, March 2005. M. Wainwright, T. Jaakkola, and A. Willsky, " Tree consistency and bounds on the performance of the max-product algorithm and its generalizations ," Statistics and Computing , vol. 14, no. 2, pp. 143-166, April 2004. J. Portilla, V. Strela, M. Wainwright, and E. P. Simoncelli, " Image denoising using scale mixtures of Gaussians in the wavelet domain ," IEEE Transactions on Image Processing , vol. 12, no. 11, pp. 1338-1351, Nov. 2003. Awards, Memberships and Fellowships COPSS Presidents' Award ,
                                                                                2014 IEEE Communications Society (COMSOC) & Information Theory Society (IT) Joint Paper Award ,
                                                                                2012 Institute of Mathematical Statistics (IMS) Fellow ,
                                                                                2011 Electrical Engineering Award for Outstanding Teaching ,
                                                                                2011 NSF Faculty Early Career Development Award (CAREER) ,
                                                                                2006 Okawa Research Grant ,
                                                                                2005 Sloan Research Fellow ,
                                                                                2005 Photo Larger Photo Links Personal Homepage Publications Dissertations Contact Information 263 Cory Hall tel: 510-643-1978 fax: 642-2845 wainwrig@eecs.berkeley.edu Office Hours by appointment Assistant Kim Kail 253 Cory 510-643-6633 kail@erso.berkeley.edu Research Support Thomas Parsons tparsons@berkeley.edu About History Diversity Visiting Special Events People Directory Leadership Faculty Staff Students Alumni Connect Support Us K-12 Outreach Faculty Positions Staff Positions Contact Academics Undergrad Admissions & Programs Graduate Admissions & Programs Courses Prospective Women Students Current Students Resources Room Reservations My EECS Info For Students For Grads For Undergrads For ASEs IT Services Facilities/Safety For Faculty/Staff Visiting Scholars Research Areas Centers & Labs Projects Technical Reports PhD Dissertations Joint Colloquium BEARS Symposium Industry Recruit Students Corporate Access Learn more about the Campaign for Berkeley and Graduate Fellowships. Give to EECS Berkeley EECS on Twitter Berkeley EECS on Instagram Berkeley EECS on LinkedIn Berkeley EECS on YouTube EE CS UC Berkeley Berkeley Engineering CDSS Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy Contact © 2023 UC Regents

