Name: Michael Clancy

Description: I received my B.S. at University of Illinois (Urbana-Champaign), attended Stanford University as a graduate student, and was appointed Lecturer at U.C. Berkeley in 1977. I received security of employment in 1983, and was appointed Senior Lecturer in 1989. (Lecturers in the U.C. system are faculty whose job responsibilities include teaching and University service, but not research. More information on U.C. Berkeley lecturers and security of employment—the lecturer equivalent of tenure—is available here and here.)I have won two CS Division awards: the Diane S. McEntyre Award for Excellence in Teaching in 1992 and the Information Technology Faculty Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching in 2001. In 2004, I received a campus award for Outstanding Mentorship of Graduate Student Instructors.My current research efforts, part of the UC-WISE project (University of California Web-based Instruction for Science and Engineering), focus on lab-based instruction, a technique that swaps lecture and discussion time for supervised hands-on computer lab work. Lab-based instruction potentially has numerous benefits. It substitutes active learning activities for the (at best) passive learning provided in most lectures and discussion sections. The increased number of online exercises permits smoother transition between exercises and a more gradual slope in complexity from activity to activity. Lab instructors observing their students’ work can immediately clear up confusion or head off misconceptions if necessary.The UC-WISE project as a whole aims to provide technology and curricula for laboratory-based higher education courses that incorporate online facilities for collaboration, inquiry learning, and assessment, and to investigate the most effective ways of integrating this technology into courses; to allow instructors to customize courses, prototype new course elements, and collect review comments from experienced course developers.The project combines curricular design and improvement, system building, and educational research. Work so far has resulted in several lab-based courses (CS 3L, 4, and 61BL at Berkeley; CSE 20, 21, and 30 at U.C. Merced).

Title: Senior Lecturer

Website: http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/~clancy/web/index.html

Email: clancy@cs.berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 642-7017

Address: University of California, Berkeley 779 Soda Hall Berkeley, Ca 94720-1776

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/michael-clancy/

Personal Website Text Short: Mike Clancy home page Home Information about me Courses I coordinate Course staffing opportunities The UC-WISE project Programming case studies My publications Interesting links Directions to campus and Soda Hall Mike Clancy Senior Lecturer EECS Computer Science Division UC Berkeley What I do, and how to contact me Besides teaching and advising,
I coordinate the lower-division courses in the Computer Science Division and
co-manage the CS self-paced courses. 
I am also the director of the UC-WISE project,
exploring the use of computing technology to provide hands-on lab-based instruction
in the lower-division programming courses. My office is 779 Soda, phone (510) 642-7017.
The best way to contact me is by email: I'll be in and out over the summer. Some alternate contacts are the following: Administrative Assistant Jenny Jones 339 Soda (510) 642-9044 Administrative Assistant Audrey Raya 385 Soda (510) 642-7699 Grant Administrator Willa Walker 784 Soda Hall (510) 643-2568 Web links: Brian Harvey and Dan Garcia (the other two CS Lecturers), the CS Division web site , and the U.C. Berkeley web site . Last modified: $Date: 2005/08/30 08:52:21 $
by Mike Clancy

