Name: Michael Isaacson

Description: M. Isaacson has published over 130 articles and book chapters dealing with field emission, scanning and scanning transmission electron microscopy (instrumentation and development), electron energy loss spectroscopy, image processing, electron optics, electron beam modification of materials, atomic resolution microscopy, nanolithography and fabrication, mesoscopic physics, near field optical imaging and nanodevices for biology and medicine. He is currently finishing a text entitled “Nano/Microcharacterization: The Physics and Methodology of Materials Characterization from Volumes Less than 1μm3”. In addition, he has presented over 240 invited lectures worldwide. Awards include a Hertz Foundation Fellowship, a Sloan Foundation Faculty Fellowship, the Burton Medal from the Electron Microscopy Society of America (for pioneering work in the development of electron energy loss spectroscopy within the electron microscope), an Alexander von Humboldt Foundation Senior Scientist Research Award (for instrument innovation leading to chemical characterization at the nanometer scale within the electron microscope), and the Rank Prize in Optoelectronics (for fundamental research in the development of near-field optical imaging). He is a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) for his contributions to the field of atomic resolution imaging (including producing the first motion pictures of individual atoms diffusing on a surface) and served a 3 year term as Physical Science Director of the Electron Microscopy Society of America.In 1993, Professor Isaacson was elected President of the Microscopy Society of America, In 1997, he was elected to the Executive Board of the Engineering Research Council (ERC) of the American Society of Engineering Education (ASEE) and in 2001 he was elected as Secretary/Treasurer of the ERC. He has also served on the editorial boards of the Reviews of Scientific Instruments, the Journal de Microscopie et de Spectroscopie Electronique, Nanostructured Materials, Microscopy and Microanalysis, Ultramicroscopy, Scanning and The Journal of Vacuum Science and Technology,B. Presently, he is on the external advisory committees of the NIH National Center for Microscopy and Imaging Research at the University of California, San Diego and the NIH Laboratory for 3D Fine Structure at the University of Colorado at Boulder. He is also currently a member of the scientific advisory board of Trellis Biosciences. Prof. Isaacson has several patents and has been a consultant in microscopy, electron optical instrumentation and nanotechnology to several industrial and government organizations. He was Professor in the School of Applied and Engineering Physics at Cornell University from 1988-2002, a Visiting Professor in the Department of Anatomy at the University of California, San Francisco from 1997-1998 and director of the Keck Foundation Program in Nanobiotechnology at Cornell. Prof. Isaacson has a Ph.D. in Physics from the University of Chicago and a B.S. in Engineering Physics from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He is presently The Narinder Kapany Professor of Optoelectronics and Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Affairs in the Baskin School of Engineering at the University of California, Santa Cruz.

Title: Associate Dean of Research and Graduate Studies, Professor

Website: http://www.soe.ucsc.edu/node/262

Email: msi@soe.ucsc.edu

Phone: (831) 459-1722

Address: University of California, Santa Cruz 1156 High Street Santa Cruz, CA 95064

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-michael-isaacson/

Personal Website Text Short: Baskin School of Engineering – Baskin Engineering provides unique educational opportunities, world-class research with an eye to social responsibility and diversity. Skip to content ucsc.edu BE News Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Undergraduate Students Undergraduate Student Newsletter Current Graduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Graduate Student Newsletter Student Organizations Student Employment Staff & Faculty Menu About BE History BE Leadership Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Degree Programs Apply Departments Applied Mathematics Biomolecular Engineering Computational Media Computer Science and Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Statistics Engineering Management Programs Research People Engage Give BE News For Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Undergraduate Students Undergraduate Student Newsletter Current Graduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Graduate Student Newsletter Student Organizations Student Employment Staff & Faculty Home »  Home Home Be bold Inspiring engineers to elevate the world through bold and socially responsible innovation Join Us Be boundless Inspiring engineers to elevate the world through bold and socially responsible innovation Join Us Be a Baskin Engineer Inspiring engineers to elevate the world through bold and socially responsible innovation Join Us #2 top public colleges for engineering salaries (Wall Street Journal, 2023) #2 public university for students focused on making an impact in the world (Princeton Review, 2022) #5 best game/simulation development program in the nation (U.S. News & World Report, 2024) ASEE Bronze-level recognition by the American Society for Engineering Education, Diversity Recognition Program (2023-2025) AAU UCSC joined just 65 other universities in the Association of American Universities in 2019 #4 for social mobility, acknowledging our commitment to enrolling and graduating low-income students (U.S. News & World Report, 2020) HSRU member of the Alliance of Hispanic Serving Research Universities #5 of the top 50 Institutions by Total Bachelors Degrees awarded in Computer Science in Engineering (ASEE, 2020) Overview A campus of exceptional beauty in coastal Santa Cruz is home to a community of people who are problem solvers by nature: Baskin Engineers. Founded in 1997 alongside the expanding internet, our school is uniquely positioned to address the challenges of the modern world. At the Baskin School of Engineering, faculty and students collaborate to create technology with a positive impact on society, in the dynamic atmosphere of a top-tier research university. Social Media View this profile on Instagram Baskin Engineering at UCSC (@ baskinengineering ) • Instagram photos and videos Follow us on Recent News Ukraine blackouts caused by malware attacks warn against evolving cybersecurity threats to the physical world In Memoriam: David Draper Stem cell study reveals distinct population of ‘troublemaker’ platelet cells that appear with aging and lead to blood clotting, disease Baskin Engineering will lead regional hub of NSF Engineering PLUS Alliance to serve underrepresented students, faculty, and staff Three UC Santa Cruz faculty members elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences See All News Upcoming Events Baskin Engineering Commencement, 2024 See All Events Welcome to Baskin Engineering An exciting academic life awaits you Join a vibrant community of students, faculty, and researchers committed to building a better future. With a focus on socially responsible innovation in areas such as health engineering, climate and sustainability, machine learning, artificial intelligence, games, and human computer interaction, there are endless possibilities to make a positive impact. We can’t wait to see what you will accomplish here. Inclusion at Baskin Engineering UC Santa Cruz and Baskin Engineering are committed to creating educational equity that will lead to real, transformative change. We are one of only two institutions in the nation that holds the honor of being a Hispanic Serving Institution, an Asian American Native American Pacific Islander Serving Institution, and member of the Association of American Universities. Read More Genomics for everyone UCSC researchers release the first human ‘pangenome,’ better representing our genetic diversity and setting the stage for new discoveries. Read More The Silicon Valley Campus A multi-disciplinary teaching and research hub Learn More Baskin School of Engineering 1156 High Street Santa Cruz, CA 95064 Online Store Contact Us Careers Make a Gift UC Santa Cruz | Privacy Policy/Terms of Use | ©2024 Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. © 2024 Baskin School of Engineering • Built with GeneratePress

