Name: Miguel Carreira-Perpinan

Description: Miguel Á. Carreira-Perpiñán is a professor in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of California, Merced. He received the degree of “licenciado en informática” (MSc in computer science) from the Technical University of Madrid in 1995 and a PhD in computer science from the University of Sheffield in 2001.Prior to joining UC Merced, he did postdoctoral work at Georgetown University (in computational neuroscience) and the University of Toronto (in machine learning), and was an assistant professor at the Oregon Graduate Institute (Oregon Health & Science University). He is the recipient of an NSF CAREER award, a Google Faculty Research Award and best (student) paper awards at AISTATS and Interspeech. He is an associate editor for the IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence and has been an area chair for several machine learning, computer vision and data mining conferences (NIPS, ECCV, SDM).His research interests lie in machine learning and optimization. Most recently, he is interested in the optimization of nested systems, such as deep neural nets, using auxiliary coordinates. Other interests are in unsupervised learning problems such as dimensionality reduction, clustering and denoising, mean-shift algorithms, and applications to speech processing (e.g. articulatory inversion and model adaptation), computer vision, sensor networks, information retrieval and other areas. My research is inspired by pattern recognition problems such as speech processing and computer vision, and by computational neuroscience. My long-term research goals are to design algorithms for complex information processing problems, and to understand how neural systems solve such problems.

Title: Associate Professor

Website: http://faculty.ucmerced.edu/mcarreira-perpinan/index.html

Email: mcarreira-perpinan@ucmerced.edu

Phone: (209) 228-4545

Address: University of California, Merced School of Engineering 5200 North Lake Rd. Merced, CA 95343

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/miguel-carreira-perpinan/

Personal Website Text Short: Miguel Á. Carreira-Perpiñán Miguel Á. Carreira-Perpiñán Professor Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering School of Engineering University of California, Merced 5200 N. Lake Road Merced, CA 95343 Office: SE2-217, lab: SE2-213B Email: mcarreira-perpinan [at] ucmerced.edu WWW: http://faculty.ucmerced.edu/mcarreira-perpinan Directions for visitors I am not looking for winter/summer interns or short-term (e.g. 1 year) students. Research interests My basic research interests are in machine learning. In recent years, I have been working on topics in the intersection of optimisation and machine learning, in particular in learning algorithms for deep neural nets and other "nested" systems, for decision trees and tree-based models, and for nonlinear embeddings; and algorithms for optimally compressing deep neural nets. Other topics of interest are dimensionality reduction/manifold learning, clustering, denoising and other unsupervised learning problems, and mean-shift algorithms. I often get inspiration from problems in speech processing (e.g. articulatory inversion and model adaptation), computer vision (e.g. segmentation, articulated pose tracking, image registration), sensor networks, robotics (e.g. inverse kinematics) and other application areas. In the past, I also worked on computational neuroscience, specifically on dimension reduction models of the maps of the visual cortex. Curriculum Vitae and biography Personal information Papers Software and databases Research , in particular: The tree alternating optimisation (TAO) algorithm for learning decision trees and tree-based models. The learning-compression (LC) algorithm for finding optimally compressed neural networks. The method of auxiliary coordinates (MAC) for optimising deeply nested systems. Teaching PhD students: Magzhan Gabidolla , PhD EECS Kuat Gazizov , PhD EECS Rasul Kairgeldin , PhD EECS Past PhD students (first appointment indicated): Arman Zharmagambetov , PhD EECS 2022. First position: postdoctoral fellow, Fundamental AI Research (FAIR) , Meta AI. Suryabhan Singh Hada , PhD EECS 2022. First position: AI engineer at LinkedIn . Yerlan Idelbayev , PhD EECS 2021. First position: applied scientist at Amazon . Max Vladymyrov , PhD EECS 2014. First position: research scientist at Yahoo Labs . Weiran Wang , PhD EECS 2013. First position: postdoc at TTI-Chicago . Ankur Kamthe , PhD EECS 2012 (co-advisor). First position: software engineer at Aruba Networks . Chao Qin , PhD EECS 2011. First position: research scientist at sharethis.com . Current professional service: Senior area chair, AAAI Conf. Artificial Intelligence (AAAI 2025) . Area chair, Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2024) . Area chair, Int. Conf. Learning Representations (ICLR 2024) . Action editor (since 2017), J. Machine Learning Research (JMLR) . Current funding: NSF: "The TAO algorithm: principled, efficient optimization of decision trees, forests, tree-based neural nets, and beyond" , $425,000 (2020-2025). Miguel A. Carreira-Perpinan Last modified: Thu May 23 13:47:51 PDT 2024 UC Merced | EECS | MACP's Home Page

