Name: Mr. Thomas Kalil

Description: From 2001 to 2008, Kalil was Special Assistant to the Chancellor for Science and Technology at UC Berkeley. He was responsible for developing major new multi-disciplinary research and education initiatives at the intersection of information technology, nanotechnology, microsystems, and biology. He also conceived and launched a program called “Big Ideas @ Berkeley,” which provides support for multidisciplinary teams of Berkeley students that are interested in addressing economic and societal challenges such as clean energy, safe drinking water, and poverty alleviation.In 2007 and 2008, Kalil was as the Chair of the Global Health Working Group for the Clinton Global Initiative, where he developed new public and private sector initiatives in areas such as maternal and child health, under-nutrition, and vaccines. Tom was also a Senior Fellow with the Center for American Progress, where he co-authored A National Innovation Agenda, one of the four pillars of CAP’s Economic Plan for Plan for the Next Administration. He was also a member of the Scientific Advisory Board of Nanomix, and has served on three committees of the National Academy of Sciences, including the Committee to Facilitate Interdisciplinary Research.Previously, Thomas Kalil served as the Deputy Assistant to President Clinton for Technology and Economic Policy, and the Deputy Director of the White House National Economic Council. He was the NEC’s “point person” on a wide range of technology and telecommunications issues, such as the liberalization of Cold War export controls, the allocation of spectrum for new wireless services, and investments in upgrading America’s high-tech workforce. He led a number of White House technology initiatives, such as the National Nanotechnology Initiative, the Next Generation Internet, bridging the digital divide, e-learning, increasing funding for long-term information technology research, making IT more accessible to people with disabilities, and addressing the growing imbalance between support for biomedical research and for the physical sciences and engineering. He was also appointed by President Clinton to serve on the G-8 Digital Opportunity Task Force (dot force).Prior to joining the White House, Tom was a trade specialist at the Washington offices of Dewey Ballantine, where he represented the Semiconductor Industry Association on U.S.-Japan trade issues and technology policy. He also served as the principal staffer to Gordon Moore in his capacity as Chair of the SIA Technology Committee.Tom received a B.A. in political science and international economics from the University of Wisconsin at Madison, and completed graduate work at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy. He is the author of articles and op-eds on S&T policy, the use of prizes as a tool for stimulating innovation, nanotechnology, nuclear strategy, newborn health, vaccines, the impact of mobile communications in developing countries, U.S.-Japan trade negotiations, U.S.-Japan cooperation in science and technology, the National Information Infrastructure, distributed learning, and electronic commerce.

Title: Special Assistant to the Chancellor

Website: http://www.eecs.berkeley.edu/IPRO/IBMday03/bio/kalil.html

Email: tkalil@berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 642-4106

Address: University of California, Berkeley
209 McLaughlin #1700
Berkeley, CA 94720-1700

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/mr-thomas-kalil/

Personal Website Text Short: Industry - EECS at Berkeley Skip to Content Expand Main Menu Collapse Main Menu Search for: Search For Students For Faculty/Staff Industry News Events Give Search for: Search About About Expand Submenu About About Overview History Expand Submenu The First Women of EECS Joseph Thomas Gier Diversity Expand Submenu Hear From Women in EECS Broadening Participation in EECS Visiting By the Numbers Special Events Expand Submenu 2022-23 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 The Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) at UC Berkeley offers one of the strongest research and instructional programs in this field anywhere in the world. Blog Academics Academics Expand Submenu Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Admissions & Programs Expand Submenu CS Major EECS Major EECS/CS Program Comparison Chart Second Bachelor's Degree Summer Research Cal Day Graduate Admissions & Programs Expand Submenu Grad Admissions FAQ Industry-Oriented Programs Research-Oriented Programs Fellowships Adding the EECS/CS M.S. From Another Department Recommended Coursework For Current Students Expand Submenu ed | EECS 101 Courses Expand Submenu EE Courses CS Courses Unlike many institutions of similar stature, regular EE and CS faculty teach the vast majority of our courses, and the most exceptional teachers are often also the most exceptional researchers. View Courses Research Research Expand Submenu Research Research Overview Areas Centers & Labs Colloquium Expand Submenu Archive BEARS Symposium Expand Submenu Archive Technical Reports Ph.D. Dissertations Research is the foundation of Berkeley EECS. Faculty, students, and staff work together on cutting-edge projects that cross disciplinary boundaries to improve everyday life and make a difference. EECS Research People People Expand Submenu People People Overview Directory Leadership Faculty Expand Submenu In Memoriam Students Expand Submenu Student Awards Student Organizations Staff Expand Submenu Student Affairs Faculty  Support Course Support Facilities and Engineering Services Financial Services HR IT Support Industrial & Public Relations Alumni Expand Submenu EE Distinguished Alumni CS Distinguished Alumni EECS faculty, students, staff, and alumni are central to our success as one of the most thriving and distinguished departments on the Berkeley campus. Latest News Connect Connect Expand Submenu Connect Connect Overview Support EECS Expand Submenu EECS Excellence Fund Memorial Funds K-12 Outreach Student Affairs Faculty Positions Staff Positions Contact Expand Submenu In an Emergency Consider reaching out for a conversation, attending a department seminar or conference, viewing a lecture on any one of our public channels, or supporting us via a gift to the university. You can help strengthen our dedication to education and outreach, solidify close ties to industry, and nourish a supportive and inclusive culture. Contact us Home / Industry A Partner to Industry For over half a century, Berkeley EECS has been at the forefront of research that has led to important advancements in semiconductor and MEMS devices, design technology, computer architecture, operating systems and databases, and wired and wireless networking. Berkeley graduates are at the core of today’s Information Technology industry. Learn about Corporate Access 2018 Internship Open House Corporate Access The EECS Department recognizes institutions which give to the department annually with first tier access to our graduating students. Recruit Our Students External Advisory Board The EAB was established to help the department fulfill its mission of educating leaders, creating knowledge, and serving society. See Our EAB Members EECS Assistant Profs. Nika Haghtalab, Preeya Khana and Sophia Shao, 2024 Sloan Foundation Fellowship Recipients Innovation and Leadership From Business Insider power rankings to prizes for innovation, Berkeley EECS is a fountainhead of creative people and ideas. Read About  Us in the News BEARS 2023 The Berkeley EECS Annual Research Symposium is an opportunity for everyone in the wider UC Berkeley Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences community to come together to hear about some of our latest research and celebrate the year’s Distinguished Alumni. This year’s lectures celebrated the department’s 50th anniversary. The program highlighted the wide-reaching impact of EE+CS at Berkeley in academia and industry over the past five decades. See the 2023 program Larry Zitnick speaks on "Modeling Atoms to Address Our Climate Crisis" on 10/04/23 EECS Joint Colloquium The weekly EECS Colloquium offers our faculty a chance to invite speakers offering a wide range of experiences covering topics in both Electrical Engineering and Computer Science to engage with the department. View Lectures Entrepreneurial Spirit Berkeley EECS faculty and alumni have founded over 118 startups .  These have resulted in 11 successful IPOs.  The resulting companies now have over $195.35B in Market Capitalization. According to PitchBook’s Venture Capital Monthly , UC Berkeley is the #2 university for VC-backed undergraduate entrepreneurs and companies in their 2017-2018 edition. The University of California is also ranked first in the world among universities granted U.S. utility patents in 2015. Read more about EECS Entrepreneurial Activities. About History Diversity Visiting Special Events People Directory Leadership Faculty Staff Students Alumni Connect Support Us K-12 Outreach Faculty Positions Staff Positions Contact Academics Undergrad Admissions & Programs Graduate Admissions & Programs Courses Prospective Women Students Current Students Resources Room Reservations My EECS Info For Students For Grads For Undergrads For ASEs IT Services Facilities/Safety For Faculty/Staff Visiting Scholars Research Areas Centers & Labs Technical Reports PhD Dissertations Joint Colloquium BEARS Symposium Industry Recruit Students Corporate Access Learn more about the Campaign for Berkeley and Graduate Fellowships. Give to EECS Berkeley EECS on Twitter Berkeley EECS on Instagram Berkeley EECS on LinkedIn Berkeley EECS on YouTube EE CS UC Berkeley Berkeley Engineering CDSS Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy Contact © 2024 UC Regents View Open Faculty Positions

