Name: Nic Brummell

Description: My interests lie in astrophysical and geophysical fluid dynamics. I concentrate on the highly nonlinear, turbulent flow regimes, using high resolution numerical simulations for such studies. In particular, my research is currently focused on dynamos, where turbulence in an electrically-conducting fluid creates and maintains strong magnetic field, with a particular view to understanding the origin of magnetic activity of our Sun. The demands of such problems consume a great deal of cutting-edge supercomputing power and therefore the algorithms of efficient parallel computing are a complementary research topic. I am also interested in more basic fluid dynamic phenomena, such as double-diffusive instabilities and aerodynamics.

Title: Associate Professor

Website: http://users.soe.ucsc.edu/~brummell/

Email: brummell@soe.ucsc.edu

Phone: (831) 459-2122

Address: University of California, Santa Cruz Baskin School of Engineering 1156 High St Mail Stop SOE2 Santa Cruz, CA 95064

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-nic-brummell/

Personal Website Text Short: Dr. Nic Brummell Geophysical and Astrophysical Fluid Dynamics (GAFD) group Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics University of California Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, California, U.S.A. Basic Information This the home page for Prof. Nic Brummell. I am a Professor of Applied Mathematics and currently Chair of the Applied Mathematics and Statistics Department at the University of California Santa Cruz. I teach basic applied mathematics, fluid dynamics, numerical analysis and things related to numerical simulations. My research is on the fluid dynamics of geophysical and astrophysical situations.  In particular, I
study the magnetohydrodynamics (MHD) of the interiors of stars (especially the Sun). I am interested
in how objects generate and sustain  magnetic fields (dynamo theory) and the processes that lead to
their interior thermal, chemical and dynamic structure (mixing). Hot topics! AMS/PHYS 107/217 UNUM workshop Points of Contact Address: Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics, SOE2, Jack Baskin School of Engineering University of California Santa Cruz 1156 High Street Santa Cruz CA 95064 Phone: (831) 459-2122 (w) E-mail: brummell@soe.ucsc.edu More information AMS classes Old work links

