Name: Nicholas Sitar

Description: Research interests:Geotechnical earthquake engineering, characterization and behavior of weakly cemented soils, static and seismic slope stability, ground improvement, seismic stability of mechanically stabilized slopes and embankments, stability of rock slopes and rock masses, application of stochastic methods in geoengineering, applications of ubiquitous wireless sensor networks in environmental and seismic monitoring.Geotechnical earthquake engineering, characterization and behavior of weakly cemented soils, static and seismic slope stability, ground improvement, seismic stability of mechanically stabilized slopes and embankments, stability of rock slopes and rock masses, application of stochastic methods in Geoengineering, applications of ubiquitous wireless sensor networks in environmental and seismic monitoring.Application of Wireless Sensor Technology to Environmental MonitoringUbiquitous wireless sensor networks have numerous potential applications in many areas.  The main objective of this research is to develop affordable, reliable wireless instrumentation for a variety of applications such as wild fire monitoring, landslide and rock fall monitoring, and monitoring on underground space.Monitoring of Rock Mass Response to Environmental LoadingRock masses deform in response to changes in atmospheric pressure and temperature. These deformations can be monitored using a variety of sensors. In this effort acoustic emissions are being tracked at a site in Yosemite in order to establish correlation between the intensity of acoustic emissions and the expansion and contraction of rock blocks. In a related effort, seismic monitoring has been successfully used to monitor rock falls and rock fall impacts.  The ultimate goal is to develop rock fall hazard warning system for high rock walls.Application of Reliability Methods to Probabilistic Slope Stability AnalysisIt is well recognized that the natural heterogeneity of the subsurface environment introduces a significant level of uncertainty in making predictions of the expected contaminant pathways and concentration levels. The approach taken in this work is to use reliability methods developed primarily in structural engineering and to apply them to slope stability analyses in soil and rock. These techniques appear to offer considerable computational advantage in the analysis of events with a very low probability of occurrence. The current emphasis is on development of new applications.Earthquake EngineeringEvaluation of Seismically Induced Earth Pressures on Retaining Structures – It is generally accepted that retaining structures are subject to increased loads due to seismic loading.  However, observations in a number of recent earthquakes suggest that well designed retaining structures perform quite well even if they are not particularly designed for seismic loading.  Most recent results from dynamic centrifuge experiments show that the magnitude of the dynamic pressure is significantly lower than has been assumed previously.  The current effort is concentrating on the evaluation of basement and underground structures and numerical modeling.Seismic Response of Improved GroundGround improvement using different techniques is extensively used to mitigate the seismically induced liquefaction hazard.  In this project, dynamic centrifuge tests were being used to evaluate the influence of the geometry of the improved zone on the expected performance of the improved ground.

Title: Professor

Website: https://www.ce.berkeley.edu/people/faculty/sitar

Email: nsitar@ce.berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 643-8623

Address: University of California, Berkeley 449 Davis Hall #1710 Berkeley, CA 94720 - 1710

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/nicholas-sitar/

Personal Website Text Short: Nicholas Sitar | Civil and Environmental Engineering Skip to main content Please enable javascript in your browser for full site features Log In Toggle navigation Navigation Menu About Overview Principles of Community Institutes Visitors Contact Grad Programs Construction Systems Energy, Civil Infrastructure and Climate Engineering and Project Management Environmental Engineering GeoSystems Engineering Structural Engineering, Mechanics and Materials Systems Engineering Transportation Engineering People Faculty Staff Alumni Advisory Council Undergraduate Prospective Undergraduates Admissions Diversity Curriculum Advising Certificate Undergrad Student Orgs Study Abroad Finances Careers Graduate Prospective Graduates Admissions Diversity Programs Degrees Grad Student Orgs Finances Careers Handbook Testing Facilities Structures Lab Equipment Lab Staff Resources For Students For Faculty For Staff For Visiting Scholars and Postdocs Diversity and Inclusion Libraries Computing Documentation Safety Documentation (CEE)² Program People Faculty Profile Nicholas Sitar Edward G. Cahill and John R. Cahill Professor of Civil Engineering Research Interests Geotechnical earthquake engineering, Wireless sensors, Seismic slope stability, Seismic Earth pressure, Rock erosion, Groundwater remediation Contact sitar@berkeley.edu (510) 643-8623 Office 449 Davis Hall Office Hours M, Th 1:30- 3 pm or by appointment. Summary Research In The News Ph.D. - Civil Engineering (Geotechnical), Stanford University, 1979 M.S. - Geology (Hydrogeology), Stanford University, 1975 B.A.Sc. - Geological Engineering, University of Windsor, Canada, 1973 Education Ph.D. - Civil Engineering (Geotechnical), Stanford University, 1979 M.S. - Geology (Hydrogeology), Stanford University, 1975 B.A.Sc. - Geological Engineering, University of Windsor, Canada, 1973 Geotechnical earthquake engineering, characterization and behavior of weakly cemented soils, static and seismic slope stability, ground improvement, seismic stability of mechanically stabilized slopes and embankments, stability of rock slopes and rock masses, application of stochastic methods in Geoengineering, applications of ubiquitous wireless sensor networks in environmental and seismic monitoring. Analysis and simulation of micro-mechanical characteristics of granular materials. Analysis of the influence of depositional factors on properties of coarse sediments, sands and silts, deposited in different geologic settings using X-Ray tomography and a numerical modeling using advanced DEM algorithms. Stability of discontinuous - jointed and fractured rock masses and rock-water interaction. Application of 3D DEM coupled with Lattice Boltzmann method to analyze stability of rock masses and rock scour by flowing water in unlined rock channels, wave-solid interaction, and other complex phenomena. Earthquake Engineering Performance of natural slopes under seismic loading. Dynamic properties of naturally deposited coarse sediments. Debris flow and granular flow runout analysis Debris flows initiated by intense rainfall represent a major hazard in many settings. The emphasis is on the application of the Material Point Method (MPM) on the analysis of runout under different channel configurations in order to develop better prediction capabilities for delineating potential hazard zones. News Title Publication Date Nick Sitar Gives the 25th Sowers Lecture in Atlanta, GA 05/31/2023 Spotlights No mentions in Spotlights Student Updates No mentions in Student Updates Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering College of Engineering UC Berkeley Give to CEE © 2024 UC Regents Accessibility Nondiscrimination Campus Privacy Office

