Name: Oliver O’Reilly

Description: Oliver M. O’Reilly is a Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering and vice provost for undergraduate education at the University of California, Berkeley. He received his B.E. in mechanical engineering from the National University of Ireland, Galway (NUIG). Subsequently, he received his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in theoretical and applied mechanics from Cornell University. At Cornell, he studied under Phil Holmes and Frank Moon. After spending two years as a postdoctoral researcher at the Institut für Mechanik at ETH-Zürich under Jürg Dual, he joined the faculty in mechanical Engineering at UC Berkeley.His interests span the fields of continuum mechanics and nonlinear dynamics. He has a broad range of specializations including directed (or Cosserat) theories of deformable bodies, constrained rigid body dynamics, contact mechanics, linear and nonlinear vibrations, and linear and nonlinear dynamics of deformable bodies. He has applied these interests to a range of applications including soft robots, MEMS resonators, brake squeal, the dynamics of toys, motorcycle navigation, axially moving media, artificial and natural satellites, spinal kinematics, and vehicle collision dynamics. O’Reilly has coauthored over 80 archival journal articles and written two textbooks and is a co-inventor on two patents. He has also received multiple teaching awards including UC Berkeley’s Distinguished Teaching Award in 1999, the Pi-Tau-Sigma Professor of the Year Award in 2003, and the Tau-Beta-Pi Outstanding Faculty of the Year Award in 2013.O’Reilly currently serves as a contributing editor for the journal Nonlinear Dynamics and is on the editorial boards of the following journals: Nonlinearity, International Journal of Nonlinear Mechanics, Regular and Chaotic Dynamics, and Nonlinear Dynamics and Mobile Robots.

Title: Professor

Website: https://dynamics.berkeley.edu/

Email: oreilly@me.berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 642-0877

Address: University of California, Berkeley 6137 Etcheverry Hall #1740 Berkeley, Ca 94720 - 1740

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/oliver-oreilly/

Personal Website Text Short: Berkeley Dynamics Lab – O'Reilly Research Group Skip to main content Skip to primary navigation Header Search Widget Search Search this website O'Reilly Research Group Home People Research Teaching Publications Welcome Welcome to the website of the Dynamics Lab, Professor Oliver M. O’Reilly’s research group in the Department of Mechanical Engineering at the University of California, Berkeley. Our research focuses on the dynamics of mechanical systems and frequently draws upon rigid body dynamics, continuum mechanics, robotics, and biology. Current interests include discrete elastic rods , the dynamics of flexible risers , models for soft robot locomotion , and fluid-structure interaction . We use a combined analytical, computational, and experimental approach with the goal of elucidating the engineering science underpinning these problems. Visit our Twitter feed and YouTube channel ! You might also be interested in an online education resource on the mathematics of rotations . Lab News February 2024 Thanks to Marni Ellery for the lovely article on our paper on the holonomy of a rolling sphere that was posted on the Berkeley Engineering Website . January 2024 Excited to see our paper on the holonomy of a rolling sphere published in Proceedings of the Royal Society A. July 2022 Congratulations to Nathaniel (PhD, 2022) and to Oliver on his appointment as Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education ! April 2022 Great to see that our 2020 paper on the mechanics-based model for the cooking of spaghetti featured in Spektrum and Focus . December 2021 Congratulations to Brian Muldoon (MS, 2021)! Mechanical Engineering Berkeley Engineering UC Berkeley Privacy Accessibility Nondiscrimination © 2016–2024 UC Regents  | Log in

