Name: Paolo D’Odorico

Description: Paolo D’Odorico is a professor of water resources at the University of California, Berkeley. His research focuses on the role of hydrological processes in the functioning of terrestrial ecosystems and societies. Starting from analyses of mechanisms underlying the coupling between hydrological processes and the biota, his research has contributed to the field of ecohydrology. Through field observations and modeling studies he is studying new mechanisms of desertification and factors contributing to the resilience of the desert margins.His work has highlighted the effect of environmental variability and positive feedbacks between vegetation and resource availability on the resilience of dry tropical forests, freshwater wetlands, mangrove swamps, and seagrass meadows. He is currently investigating the global patterns of water use in agriculture, sustainable irrigation, virtual water trade and transnational water appropriations and their impacts on water equity, food security and the environment.Research interests: hydrology, water resources, ecosystems, nonlinear dynamics, agriculture, food security, water justice.

Title: Professor of Environmental Science, Policy, and Management

Website: https://nature.berkeley.edu/paololab/

Email: paolododo@berkeley.edu

Phone: nan

Address: University of California, Berkeley

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/paolo-dodorico/

Personal Website Text Short: Ecohydrology and Water&Society Lab – Ecohydrology and Water&Society Lab Skip to content Ecohydrology and Water&Society Lab Ecohydrology and Water&Society Lab Menu Home Research Food-Energy-Water Nexus Dryland Ecohydrology Desertification People Publications Contact Desertification Dryland Ecohydrology Food Energy Water Nexus Our group investigates the role of water in the dynamics of ecosystems (ecohydrology) and societies (social hydrology). We focus in particular on ecohydrological feedbacks and their impact on the stability and resilience of dryland ecosystems. We study how dryland plant communities are changing, investigate the major drivers and effects of such changes, and the role played by nonlinearities, feedbacks, and environmental randomness in the underlying dynamics. Our research in “social hydrology” investigates water needs for agriculture and energy production. We try to answer simple questions such as: “Is there enough water to feed everyone?”; “where is that water available?”; “what are the environmental impacts of human appropriation of water resources?”. These research questions reflect recent concerns that water limitations may constrain global food security. We focus on the nexus existing among water, food, and energy and investigate patterns of globalization and inequality in the distribution of natural resources that are  crucial to meet food and energy needs. Contact Us Department of Environmental Science, Policy, & Management, UC Berkeley 130 Mulford Hall #3114 Berkeley, CA 94720 Accessibility | Nondiscrimination | Privacy Copyright © 2024 UC Regents. All rights reserved.

