Name: Paul Duguid

Description: Paul Duguid came to the UC Berkeley School of Information from Xerox PARC and its affiliated Institute for Research on Learning. He brings from these enduring interest in work, learning, and research, the ways in which each gets reduced to “information,” and what often gets left out in the process.Research interest(s):critical information studies

Title: Adjunct Full Professor

Website: https://www.ischool.berkeley.edu/people/paul-duguid

Email: duguid@berkeley.edu

Phone: nan

Address: nan

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/paul-duguid/

Personal Website Text Short: Paul Duguid | UC Berkeley School of Information Skip to main content Submit Log in UC Berkeley Give Volunteer Contact Us Alumni Alumni Get Involved & Give Back Sign Up to Volunteer Stay Connected I School Slack Alumni News Alumni Events Alumni Accounts Career Support Log in About About Academic Mission Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Resources DEIBJ Leadership History Featured Profiles Featured Faculty Featured Alumni South Hall Work at the I School Subscribe to Email Announcements Logos & Style Guide Directions & Parking Contact Us The School of Information is UC Berkeley’s newest professional school. Located in the center of campus, the I School is a graduate research and education community committed to expanding access to information and to improving its usability, reliability, and credibility while preserving security and privacy. Programs Programs MIMS Program Admissions Career Outcomes Degree Requirements Paths Through the MIMS Degree Final Project Funding Your Education Admissions Events Visit Us Request Information 5th Year MIDS Program Career Outcomes Capstone Project MIDS Program Admissions Jack Larson Data for Good Fellowship Tuition & Fees Capstone Project Women in MIDS MIDS Curriculum News Request Information MICS Program Admissions MICS Student News Tuition & Fees Capstone Project Request Information Ph.D. Program Admissions Career Outcomes Degree Requirements Funding Your Education Dissertations Admissions Events Request Information Graduate Certificates Applied Data Science Certificate ICTD Certificate Citizen Clinic The School of Information offers four degrees: The Master of Information Management and Systems (MIMS) program educates information professionals to provide leadership for an information-driven world. The Master of Information and Data Science (MIDS) is an online degree preparing data science professionals to solve real-world problems. The 5th Year MIDS program is a streamlined path to a MIDS degree for Cal undergraduates. The Master of Information and Cybersecurity (MICS) is an online degree preparing cybersecurity leaders for complex cybersecurity challenges. Our Ph.D. in Information Science is a research program for next-generation scholars of the information age. Courses Courses Information Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule Fall 2024 Course Schedule Data Science Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule Cybersecurity Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule The School of Information's courses bridge the disciplines of information and computer science, design, social sciences, management, law, and policy. We welcome interest in our graduate-level Information classes from current UC Berkeley graduate and undergraduate students and community members. More information about signing up for classes. People People duguid Faculty Ladder & Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Emeriti Students MIMS Students MIDS Students 5th Year MIDS Students MICS Students Ph.D. Students Staff Visitors Research Research Publications Centers & Labs Research Areas Computer-mediated Communication Data Science Design Entrepreneurship Human-computer Interaction (HCI) Information Economics Information Organization Information Policy Information Retrieval & Search Information Visualization Law Privacy Security Social & Cultural Studies Technology for Developing Regions User Experience Research Research by faculty members and doctoral students keeps the I School on the vanguard of contemporary information needs and solutions. The I School is also home to several active centers and labs, including the Center for Long-Term Cybersecurity (CLTC) , the Center for Technology, Society & Policy , and the BioSENSE Lab . Careers Careers For Employers Why Hire I School? Events Request a Resume Book Leadership Development Program Mailing List For Nonprofit and Government Employers For Students & Alumni Events Resources Leadership Development Program Advising Jobscan & Applicant Tracking Systems Resume & LinkedIn Review Resume Book I School graduate students and alumni have expertise in data science, user experience design & research, product management, engineering, information policy, cybersecurity, and more — learn more about hiring I School students and alumni . News News Press Coverage Alumni News I School Voices Speakers Celebrate Moments of Persistence, Resilience, and Camaraderie at 2024 Commencement On May 18, 2024, the School of Information welcomed 423 of 670 total graduating students from the Master of... Commencement Speaker and Net Neutrality Champion Gigi Sohn Speaks on the Importance of Tech Advocacy Gigi Sohn gave the keynote speech at the UC Berkeley School of Information May 2024 Commencement. Awards Honor May 2024 Graduates The School of Information’s May 2024 Commencement presented an opportunity to honor faculty and student achievements... The I School Graduate Scholars Program in 2024 The initiative is now known at the I School as the I School Graduate Scholars (ISGS) program, which... Events Events Distinguished Lecture Series I School Lectures Information Access Seminars CLTC Events For the I School Community Alumni Events Women in MIDS Events School of Information May 2024 Commencement May 18, 2024, 2:00 pm Parler Games: Folklore, Social Media, and Insurrection Apr 24, 2024, 12:30 pm to 1:45 pm Misinformation In and About Science Feb 21, 2024, 12:10 pm to 1:30 pm Insight and Oversights: Shaping the Future of Visual Analytics with AI Jan 31, 2024, 12:10 pm to 1:30 pm Paul Duguid Adjunct Professor Emeritus duguid@ischool.berkeley.edu ischool.berkeley.edu/~duguid Focus The concept of information; the history of information; the history of "technocracy"; critical information studies. Research areas Social & Cultural Studies Biography Current Research Information and authenticity.  From a historical perspective: how we come to trust information we encounter and how we led credibility to information we share and what role brands and other forms of certification play. Other Research See Information: A Historical Companion , co-edited with  Profs. Anthony Grafton (Princeton), Ann Blair (Harvard), and Anja Goeing (Zurich). Princeton University Press, 2021. Education BA, English & Philosophy, Bristol University, UK, 1976 MA, English Literature, Washington University, St. Louis, 1980 What is the best thing about working at the I School? Multidisciplinary faculty and students. What Information issues interests you most? Questions of authenticity of information. People duguid Faculty Students Staff Visitors Recent courses taught Spring 2023 Info 103. History of Information Spring 2022 Info 103. History of Information Info 218. Concepts of Information Fall 2021 Info 375. Teaching Assistance Practicum Spring 2021 Info 103. History of Information Fall 2020 Info 375. Teaching Assistance Practicum Info 295. Doctoral Colloquium Spring 2020 Info 103. History of Information 1 of 10 next › Recent publications 2021 Information: A Historical Companion 2020 “Introduction” in Information: A Historical Companion “Communication, Computation, and Information: Connecting the Dots” in Information: A Historical Companion 2019 Early marks: American trademarks before US trademark law 2017 The Social Life of Information: Updated, with a New Preface Last updated: May 23, 2024 Sign up for more information Find us on Facebook Find us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Connect on Linkedin Watch us on YouTube View Flickr Photos Read our Medium Publication Copyright 1995–2024 UC Regents Nondiscrimination | Accessibility | Privacy UC Berkeley Give Volunteer Contact Us Alumni Log in About Academic Mission Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Resources DEIBJ Leadership History Featured Profiles Featured Faculty Featured Alumni South Hall Work at the I School Subscribe to Email Announcements Logos & Style Guide Directions & Parking Contact Us Programs MIMS Program Admissions Career Outcomes Degree Requirements Paths Through the MIMS Degree Final Project Funding Your Education Admissions Events Visit Us Request Information 5th Year MIDS Program Career Outcomes Capstone Project MIDS Program Admissions Jack Larson Data for Good Fellowship Tuition & Fees Capstone Project Women in MIDS MIDS Curriculum News Request Information MICS Program Admissions MICS Student News Tuition & Fees Capstone Project Request Information Ph.D. Program Admissions Career Outcomes Degree Requirements Funding Your Education Dissertations Admissions Events Request Information Graduate Certificates Applied Data Science Certificate ICTD Certificate Citizen Clinic Application Courses Information Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule Fall 2024 Course Schedule Data Science Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule Cybersecurity Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule People duguid Faculty Ladder & Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Emeriti Students MIMS Students MIDS Students 5th Year MIDS Students MICS Students Ph.D. Students Staff Visitors Research Publications Centers & Labs Research Areas Computer-mediated Communication Data Science Design Entrepreneurship Human-computer Interaction (HCI) Information Economics Information Organization Information Policy Information Retrieval & Search Information Visualization Law Privacy Security Social & Cultural Studies Technology for Developing Regions User Experience Research Careers For Employers Why Hire I School? Events Request a Resume Book For Nonprofit and Government Employers Leadership Development Program Mailing List For Students & Alumni Events Resources Leadership Development Program Advising Jobscan & Applicant Tracking Systems Resume & LinkedIn Review Resume Book News Press Coverage Alumni News I School Voices Events Distinguished Lecture Series I School Lectures Information Access Seminars CLTC Events For the I School Community Alumni Events Women in MIDS Events

