Name: Peter Bartlett

Description: Peter Bartlett is a professor in the Division of Computer Science and the Department of Statistics. He is the co-author of the bookLearning in Neural Networks: Theoretical Foundations. He has served as associate editor of the journalsMachine Learning,Mathematics of Control Signals and Systems, theJournal of Machine Learning Research, theJournal of Artificial Intelligence Research, and theIEEE Transactions on Information Theory. He was awarded the Malcolm McIntosh Prize for Physical Scientist of the Year in Australia for his work in statistical learning theory. He was a Miller Institute Visiting Research Professor in Statistics and Computer Science at U.C. Berkeley in Fall 2001, and a fellow, senior fellow and professor in the Research School of Information Sciences and Engineering at the Australian National University’s Institute for Advanced Studies (1993-2003). He is also an honorary professor in the Department of Computer Science and Electrical Engineering at the University of Queensland.

Title: Professor

Website: http://www.eecs.berkeley.edu/Faculty/Homepages/bartlett.html

Email: bartlett@eecs.berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 642-7780

Address: University of California, Berkeley 723 Sutardja Dai Hall Berkeley, Ca 94720-1758

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-peter-bartlett/

Personal Website Text Short: Peter Bartlett | EECS at UC Berkeley Skip to Content Expand Search Form Collapse Search Form Expand Main Menu Collapse Main Menu Search for: Search For Students For Faculty/Staff Industry News Events Give Search for: Search About About Expand Submenu About About Overview History Expand Submenu The First Women of EECS Joseph Thomas Gier Diversity Expand Submenu Hear From Women in EECS Broadening Participation in EECS Visiting By the Numbers Special Events Expand Submenu 2022-23 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 The Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) at UC Berkeley offers one of the strongest research and instructional programs in this field anywhere in the world. Blog Academics Academics Expand Submenu Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Admissions & Programs Expand Submenu CS Major EECS Major EECS/CS Program Comparison Chart Second Bachelor's Degree Summer Research Cal Day Graduate Admissions & Programs Expand Submenu Grad Admissions FAQ Industry-Oriented Programs Research-Oriented Programs Fellowships Adding the EECS/CS M.S. From Another Department Recommended Coursework For Current Students Expand Submenu ed | EECS 101 Courses Expand Submenu EE Courses CS Courses Unlike many institutions of similar stature, regular EE and CS faculty teach the vast majority of our courses, and the most exceptional teachers are often also the most exceptional researchers. View Courses Research Research Expand Submenu Research Research Overview Areas Centers & Labs Colloquium Expand Submenu Archive BEARS Symposium Expand Submenu Archive Technical Reports Ph.D. Dissertations Research is the foundation of Berkeley EECS. Faculty, students, and staff work together on cutting-edge projects that cross disciplinary boundaries to improve everyday life and make a difference. EECS Research People People Expand Submenu People People Overview Directory Leadership Faculty Expand Submenu In Memoriam Students Expand Submenu Student Awards Student Organizations Staff Expand Submenu Student Affairs Faculty  Support Course Support Facilities and Engineering Services Financial Services HR IT Support Industrial & Public Relations Alumni Expand Submenu EE Distinguished Alumni CS Distinguished Alumni EECS faculty, students, staff, and alumni are central to our success as one of the most thriving and distinguished departments on the Berkeley campus. Latest News Connect Connect Expand Submenu Connect Connect Overview Support EECS Expand Submenu EECS Excellence Fund Memorial Funds K-12 Outreach Student Affairs Faculty Positions Staff Positions Contact Expand Submenu In an Emergency Consider reaching out for a conversation, attending a department seminar or conference, viewing a lecture on any one of our public channels, or supporting us via a gift to the university. You can help strengthen our dedication to education and outreach, solidify close ties to industry, and nourish a supportive and inclusive culture. Contact us Home / People / Faculty / Peter Bartlett Peter Bartlett Research Areas Artificial Intelligence (AI) , machine learning, statistical learning theory Control, Intelligent Systems, and Robotics (CIR) Research Centers Berkeley Artificial Intelligence Research Lab (BAIR) Berkeley Deep Drive (BDD) Center for the Theoretical Foundations of Learning, Inference, Information, Intelligence, Mathematics and Microeconomics at Berkeley (CLIMB) CITRIS People and Robots (CPAR) Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing (SITC) Biography Peter Bartlett is a professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences and the Department of Statistics and Head of Google Research Australia. Since 2020, he has been Director of the Foundations of Data Science Institute and Director of the Collaboration on the Theoretical Foundations of Deep Learning. His research interests include machine learning and statistical learning theory. He is the co-author of the book Neural Network Learning: Theoretical Foundations . He has served as an associate editor of the journals Bernoulli , Mathematics of Operations Research , the Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research , the Journal of Machine Learning Research , the IEEE Transactions on Information Theory , Machine Learning , and Mathematics of Control Signals and Systems , and as program committee co-chair for COLT and NeurIPS . He has served as the Associate Director of the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing and has been a Professor in Mathematical Sciences at the Queensland University of Technology, a Miller Institute Visiting Research Professor in Statistics and Computer Science at U.C. Berkeley, a fellow, senior fellow, and professor in the Research School of Information Sciences and Engineering at the Australian National University's Institute for Advanced Studies, an honorary professor at the University of Queensland and a visiting professor at the University of Paris. He was awarded the Malcolm McIntosh Prize for Physical Scientist of the Year in 2001, and was chosen as an Institute of Mathematical Statistics Medallion Lecturer in 2008, an IMS Fellow and Australian Laureate Fellow in 2011, and a Fellow of the ACM in 2018. He was elected to the Australian Academy of Science in 2015. Education 1992, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering, University of Queensland, Australia Selected Publications W. Mou, M. Yi-An, M. Wainwright, P. Bartlett, and M. Jordan, "High-order Langevin diffusion yields an accelerated MCMC algorithm," Journal of Machine Learning Research , vol. 22, pp. 1-48, March 2021. F. Hedayati and P. Bartlett, " citeKey, The Optimality of {J}effreys Prior for Online DensityEstimation and the Asymptotic Normality of MaximumLikelihood Estimators ," in Proceedings of the Conference onLearning Theory (COLT2012) , Vol. 23, 2012, pp. 7.1-7.13. F. Hedayati and P. Bartlett, " Exchangeability Characterizes Optimality of SequentialNormalized Maximum Likelihood and {Bayesian} Prediction with {Jeffreys}Prior ," in Proceedings of The Fifteenth International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics(AISTATS) , M. Girolami and N. Lawrence, Eds., 2012. A. Barth, B. I. P. Rubinstein, M.  Sundararajan, J. C. Mitchell, D. Song, and P. Bartlett, " A Learning-Based Approach to Reactive Security ," in Financial Cryptography and Data Security '10. Fourteenth International Conference , 2010. A. Tewari and P. Bartlett, " Optimistic linear programming gives logarithmic regret for irreducible MDPs ," in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 20: Proc. of the 21st Annual Conf. (NIPS 2007) , D. Koller, Y. Singer, and J. Platt, Eds., Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, Vol. 20, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2008. P. Bartlett, E. Hazan, and A. Rakhlin, " Adaptive online gradient descent ," in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 20: Proc. of the 21st Annual Conf. (NIPS 2007) , D. Koller, Y. Singer, and J. Platt, Eds., Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, Vol. 20, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2008. P. Bartlett and M. Traskin, " AdaBoost is consistent ," J. Machine Learning Research , vol. 8, no. 10, pp. 2347-2368, Oct. 2007. B. I. P. Rubinstein, P. Bartlett, and J. H. Rubinstein, " Shifting, one-inclusion mistake bounds and tight multiclass expected risk bounds ," in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 19: Proc. of the 20th Annual Conf. (NIPS 2006) , B. Scholkopf, J. Platt, and T. Hoffman, Eds., Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, Vol. 19, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2007, pp. 1193-1200. P. Bartlett and A. Tewari, " Sample complexity of policy search with known dynamics ," in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 19: Proc. of the 20th Annual Conf. (NIPS 2006) , B. Scholkopf, J. Platt, and T. Hoffman, Eds., Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, Vol. 19, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2007, pp. 97-104. J. Abernethy, P. Bartlett, and A. Rakhlin, " Multitask learning with expert advice ," in Learning Theory: Proc. 20th Annual Conf. on Learning Theory (COLT 2007) , N. H. Bshouty and C. Gentile, Eds., Lecture Notes in Computer Science: Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 4539, Berlin, Germany: Springer-Verlag, 2007, pp. 484-498. A. Tewari and P. Bartlett, " Bounded parameter Markov decision processes with average reward criterion ," in Learning Theory: Proc. 20th Annual Conf. on Learning Theory (COLT 2007) , N. H. Bshouty and C. Gentile, Eds., Lecture Notes in Computer Science: Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 4539, Berlin, Germany: Springer-Verlag, 2007, pp. 263-277. A. Rakhlin, J. Abernethy, and P. Bartlett, " Online discovery of similarity mappings ," in Proc. 24th Intl. Conf. on Machine Learning (ICML-2007) , Z. Ghahramani, Ed., ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, Vol. 227, New York, NY: The Association for Computing Machinery, Inc., 2007, pp. 767-774. A. Tewari and P. Bartlett, " On the consistency of multiclass classification methods ," J. Machine Learning Research: Special Topic on the Conference on Learning Theory 2005 , vol. 8, no. 5, pp. 1007-1025, May 2007. P. Bartlett and A. Tewari, " Sparseness vs estimating conditional probabilities: Some asymptotic results ," J. Machine Learning Research , vol. 9, no. 4, pp. 775-790, April 2007. D. Rosenberg and P. Bartlett, " The Rademacher complexity of co-regularized kernel classes ," in Proc. 11th Intl. Conf. on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics (AISTAT 2007) , M. Meila and X. Shen, Eds., Vol. 2, Cambridge, MA: Journal of Machine Learning Research/MIT, 2007, pp. 396-403. P. Bartlett and S. Mendelsohn, " Empirical minimization ," Probability Theory and Related Fields , vol. 135, no. 3, pp. 311-334, July 2006. P. Bartlett, M. Jordan, and J. D. McAuliffe, " Convexity, classification, and risk bounds ," J. American Statistical Association , vol. 101, no. 473, pp. 138-156, March 2006. P. Bartlett, O. Bousquet, and S. mendelson, " Local Rademacher complexities ," The Annals of Statistics , vol. 33, no. 4, pp. 1497-1537, Aug. 2005. J. Baxter and P. Bartlett, " Infinite-horizon policy-gradient estimation ," J. Artificial Intelligence Research , vol. 15, pp. 319-350, Nov. 2001. M. Anthony and P. L. Bartlett, Neural Network Learning: Theoretical Foundations , Cambridge; New York: Cambridge University Press, 1999. Awards, Memberships and Fellowships Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Fellow ,
                                                                                2018 Google Faculty Research Award ,
                                                                                2018 Australian Academy of Science Fellow ,
                                                                                2015 Institute of Mathematical Statistics (IMS) Fellow ,
                                                                                2011 Malcolm McIntosh Prize for Physical Scientist of the Year ,
                                                                                2001 Photo Larger Photo Links Personal Homepage Publications Dissertations Contact Information 723 Sutardja Dai Hall tel: 510-642-7780 peter@berkeley.edu Research Support Angela Brito Baldwin angelabrito@berkeley.edu About History Diversity Visiting Special Events People Directory Leadership Faculty Staff Students Alumni Connect Support Us K-12 Outreach Faculty Positions Staff Positions Contact Academics Undergrad Admissions & Programs Graduate Admissions & Programs Courses Prospective Women Students Current Students Resources Room Reservations My EECS Info For Students For Grads For Undergrads For ASEs IT Services Facilities/Safety For Faculty/Staff Visiting Scholars Research Areas Centers & Labs Projects Technical Reports PhD Dissertations Joint Colloquium BEARS Symposium Industry Recruit Students Corporate Access Learn more about the Campaign for Berkeley and Graduate Fellowships. Give to EECS Berkeley EECS on Twitter Berkeley EECS on Instagram Berkeley EECS on LinkedIn Berkeley EECS on YouTube EE CS UC Berkeley Berkeley Engineering CDSS Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy Contact © 2023 UC Regents

