Name: Pieter Abbeel

Description: Pieter Abbeel is Director of the Berkeley Robot Learning Lab and Co-Director of the Berkeley Artificial Intelligence (BAIR) Lab. Abbeel’s research strives to build ever more intelligent systems, which has his lab push the frontiers of deep reinforcement learning, deep imitation learning, deep unsupervised learning, transfer learning, meta-learning, and learning to learn, as well as study the influence of AI on society. His lab also investigates how AI could advance other science and engineering disciplines. Abbeel’s Intro to AI class has been taken by over 100K students through edX, and his Deep RL and Deep Unsupervised Learning materials are standard references for AI researchers. Abbeel has founded three companies: Gradescope (AI to help teachers with grading homework and exams), Covariant (AI for robotic automation of warehouses and factories), and Berkeley Open Arms (low-cost, highly capable 7-dof robot arms), advises many AI and robotics start-ups, and is a frequently sought after speaker worldwide for C-suite sessions on AI future and strategy. Abbeel has received many awards and honors, including the PECASE, NSF-CAREER, ONR-YIP, Darpa-YFA, TR35. His work is frequently featured in the press, including the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, BBC, Rolling Stone, Wired, and Tech Review.

Title: Assistant Professor

Website: https://www2.eecs.berkeley.edu/Faculty/Homepages/abbeel.html

Email: pabbeel@eecs.berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 642-7034

Address: University of California, Berkeley 746 Sutardja Dai Hall #1758 Berkeley, Ca 94720-1758

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/pieter-abbeel/

Personal Website Text Short: Pieter Abbeel | EECS at UC Berkeley Skip to Content Expand Search Form Collapse Search Form Expand Main Menu Collapse Main Menu Search for: Search For Students For Faculty/Staff Industry News Events Give Search for: Search About About Expand Submenu About About Overview History Expand Submenu The First Women of EECS Joseph Thomas Gier Diversity Expand Submenu Hear From Women in EECS Broadening Participation in EECS Visiting By the Numbers Special Events Expand Submenu 2022-23 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 The Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) at UC Berkeley offers one of the strongest research and instructional programs in this field anywhere in the world. Blog Academics Academics Expand Submenu Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Admissions & Programs Expand Submenu CS Major EECS Major EECS/CS Program Comparison Chart Second Bachelor's Degree Summer Research Cal Day Graduate Admissions & Programs Expand Submenu Grad Admissions FAQ Industry-Oriented Programs Research-Oriented Programs Fellowships Adding the EECS/CS M.S. From Another Department Recommended Coursework For Current Students Expand Submenu ed | EECS 101 Courses Expand Submenu EE Courses CS Courses Unlike many institutions of similar stature, regular EE and CS faculty teach the vast majority of our courses, and the most exceptional teachers are often also the most exceptional researchers. View Courses Research Research Expand Submenu Research Research Overview Areas Centers & Labs Colloquium Expand Submenu Archive BEARS Symposium Expand Submenu Archive Technical Reports Ph.D. Dissertations Research is the foundation of Berkeley EECS. Faculty, students, and staff work together on cutting-edge projects that cross disciplinary boundaries to improve everyday life and make a difference. EECS Research People People Expand Submenu People People Overview Directory Leadership Faculty Expand Submenu In Memoriam Students Expand Submenu Student Awards Student Organizations Staff Expand Submenu Student Affairs Faculty  Support Course Support Facilities and Engineering Services Financial Services HR IT Support Industrial & Public Relations Alumni Expand Submenu EE Distinguished Alumni CS Distinguished Alumni EECS faculty, students, staff, and alumni are central to our success as one of the most thriving and distinguished departments on the Berkeley campus. Latest News Connect Connect Expand Submenu Connect Connect Overview Support EECS Expand Submenu EECS Excellence Fund Memorial Funds K-12 Outreach Student Affairs Faculty Positions Staff Positions Contact Expand Submenu In an Emergency Consider reaching out for a conversation, attending a department seminar or conference, viewing a lecture on any one of our public channels, or supporting us via a gift to the university. You can help strengthen our dedication to education and outreach, solidify close ties to industry, and nourish a supportive and inclusive culture. Contact us Home / People / Faculty / Pieter Abbeel Pieter Abbeel Research Areas Artificial Intelligence (AI) Control, Intelligent Systems, and Robotics (CIR) Machine Learning Research Centers Berkeley Artificial Intelligence Research Lab (BAIR) Berkeley Deep Drive (BDD) Center for Automation and Learning for Medical Robotics (Cal-MR) Center for Human Compatible Artificial Intelligence (CHAI) CITRIS People and Robots (CPAR) Teaching Schedule Spring 2024 CS 294-158. Deep Unsupervised Learning , Th 14:00-16:59, Sutardja Dai 250 Fall 2024 CS 188. Introduction to Artificial Intelligence , TuTh 15:30-16:59, Dwinelle 155 Biography Professor Pieter Abbeel is Director of the Berkeley Robot Learning Lab and Co-Director of the Berkeley Artificial Intelligence (BAIR) Lab. Abbeel’s research strives to build ever more intelligent systems, which has his lab push the frontiers of deep reinforcement learning, deep imitation learning, deep unsupervised learning, transfer learning, meta-learning, and learning to learn, as well as study the influence of AI on society.  His lab also investigates how AI could advance other science and engineering disciplines.  Abbeel's Intro to AI class has been taken by over 100K students through edX, and his Deep RL and Deep Unsupervised Learning materials are standard references for AI researchers.  Abbeel has founded three companies: Gradescope (AI to help teachers with grading homework and exams), Covariant (AI for robotic automation of warehouses and factories), and Berkeley Open Arms (low-cost, highly capable 7-dof robot arms), advises many AI and robotics start-ups, and is a frequently sought after speaker worldwide for C-suite sessions on AI future and strategy.  Abbeel has received many awards and honors, including the PECASE, NSF-CAREER, ONR-YIP, Darpa-YFA, TR35.  His work is frequently featured in the press, including the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, BBC, Rolling Stone, Wired, and Tech Review. Education 2008, Ph.D., Computer Science, Stanford University 2000, M.S., Electrical Engineering, KU Leuven, Belgium Selected Publications J. Luo, " Reinforcement Learning for Robotic Assembly with Force Control ," P. Abbeel, Ed., EECS Department, University of California, Berkeley, Tech. Rep. UCB/EECS-2020-20, Feb. 2020. S. Krishnan, A. Garg, S. Patil, C. Lea, G. Hager, P. Abbeel, and K. Goldberg, " Transition State Clustering: Unsupervised Surgical Trajectory Segmentation For Robot Learning ," in International Symposium on Robotics Research (ISRR) , 2015. S. McKinley, A. Garg, S. Sen, R. Kapadia, A. Murali, K. Nichols, S. Lim, S. Patil, P. Abbeel, A. M. Okamura, and K. Goldberg, " A Disposable Haptic Palpation Probe for Locating Subcutaneous Blood Vessels in Robot-Assisted Minimally Invasive Surgery ," in IEEE International Conference on Automation Science and Engineering (CASE) , 2015. M. Laskey, J. Mahler, Z. McCarthy, F. T. Pokorny, S. Patil, J. Van Den Berg, D. Kragic, P. Abbeel, and K. Goldberg, " Multi-Arm Bandit Models for 2D Sample Based Grasp Planning with Uncertainty ," in IEEE International Conference on Automation Science and Engineering (CASE) , 2015. B. Charrow, G. Kahn, S. Patil, S. Liu, K. Goldberg, P. Abbeel, N. Michael, and V. Kumar, " Information-Theoretic Planning with Trajectory Optimization for Dense 3D Mapping ," in Robotics: Science and Systems (RSS) Conference , 2015. A. Murali, S. Sen, B. Kehoe, A. Garg, S. McFarland, S. Patil, W. D. Boyd, S. Lim, P. Abbeel, and K. Goldberg, " Learning by Observation for Surgical Subtasks: Multilateral Cutting of 3D Viscoelastic and 2D Orthotropic Tissue Phantoms ," 2015. J. Mahler, S. Patil, B. Kehoe, J. Van Den Berg, M. Ciocarlie, P. Abbeel, and K. Goldberg, " GP-GPIS-OPT: Grasp Planning Under Shape Uncertainty Using Gaussian Process Implicit Surfaces and Sequential Convex Programming ," in IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation , 2015. B. Kehoe, S. Patil, P. Abbeel, and K. Goldberg, " A Survey of Research on Cloud Robotics and Automation ," IEEE Trans. on Automation Science and Engineering: Special Issue on Cloud Robotics and Automation , vol. 12, no. 2, April 2015. J. van den Berg, P. Abbeel, and K. Goldberg, " LQG-MP: Optimized Path Planning for Robots with Motion Uncertainty and Imperfect State Information ," in Proceedings of Robotics: Science and Systems (RSS) , 2010. P. Abbeel, A. Coates, and A. Y. Ng, " Autonomous Helicopter Aerobatics through Apprenticeship Learning ," International Journal of Robotics Research (IJRR) , June 2010. J. Maitin-Shepard, M. Cusumano-Towner, J. Lei, and P. Abbeel, " Cloth Grasp Point Detection based on Multiple-View Geometric Cues with Application to Robotic Towel Folding ," in Proceedings 2010 Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) , 2010. J. Tang, A. Singh, N. Goehausen, and P. Abbeel, " Learning Parameterized Maneuvers for Autonomous Helicopter Flight ," in Proceedings 2010 Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) , 2010. J. van den Berg, S. Miller, D. Duckworth, H. Hu, X. Fu, K. Goldberg, and P. Abbeel, " Superhuman Performance of Surgical Tasks by Robots using Iterative Learning from Human-Guided Demonstrations (Best Medical Robotics Paper Award) ," in Proceedings 2010 Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) , 2010. P. J. From, J. T. Gravdahl, and P. Abbeel, " On the Influence of Ship Motion Prediction Accuracy on Motion Planning and Control of Robotic Manipulators on Seaborne Platforms ," in Proceedings 2010 Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) , 2010. S. Gleason, M. Quigley, and P. Abbeel, "An Open Source AGPS/DGPS Capable C-coded Software Receiver," in Proceedings of the 22nd International Technical Meeting of The Satellite Division of the Institute of Navigation (ION GNSS 2009) , 2009, pp. 1926 - 1931. S. Gleason, M. Quigley, and P. Abbeel, "A GPS Software Receiver," in GNSS: Applications and Methods , GNSS Technology and Applications Series, Artech House, 2009, pp. 121-148. A. Coates, P. Abbeel, and A. Y. Ng, " Apprenticeship Learning for Helicopter Control ," Communications of the ACM , July 2009. Awards, Memberships and Fellowships IEEE Kiyo Tomiyasu Award ,
                                                                                2022 ACM Prize in Computing ,
                                                                                2021 Institute of Electrical & Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Fellow ,
                                                                                2018 Diane S. McEntyre Award for Excellence in Teaching Computer Science ,
                                                                                2018 Google Faculty Research Award ,
                                                                                2018 CRA-E Undergraduate Research Faculty Mentoring Award ,
                                                                                2016 Bakar Fellows Spark Award ,
                                                                                2015 DOD Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers ,
                                                                                2013 DARPA Young Faculty Award ,
                                                                                2013 RAS Early Career Award ,
                                                                                2012 Hellman Fellow ,
                                                                                2011 Sloan Research Fellow ,
                                                                                2011 MIT Tech Review Top 35 Innovators Under 35 (TR35) ,
                                                                                2011 Okawa Research Grant ,
                                                                                2010 Photo Larger Photo Links Personal Homepage Publications Dissertations Contact Information 746 Sutardja Dai Hall tel: (510) 642-7034 fax: (510) 643-1534 pabbeel@cs.berkeley.edu Office Hours arrange via email Research Support Anne Krysiak annekrysiak@berkeley.edu About History Diversity Visiting Special Events People Directory Leadership Faculty Staff Students Alumni Connect Support Us K-12 Outreach Faculty Positions Staff Positions Contact Academics Undergrad Admissions & Programs Graduate Admissions & Programs Courses Prospective Women Students Current Students Resources Room Reservations My EECS Info For Students For Grads For Undergrads For ASEs IT Services Facilities/Safety For Faculty/Staff Visiting Scholars Research Areas Centers & Labs Projects Technical Reports PhD Dissertations Joint Colloquium BEARS Symposium Industry Recruit Students Corporate Access Learn more about the Campaign for Berkeley and Graduate Fellowships. Give to EECS Berkeley EECS on Twitter Berkeley EECS on Instagram Berkeley EECS on LinkedIn Berkeley EECS on YouTube EE CS UC Berkeley Berkeley Engineering CDSS Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy Contact © 2023 UC Regents

