Name: Poornima Balasubramanyam

Description: Dr. Poornima Balasubramanyam is conducting research with Professor Karl Levitt in the Computer Security Laboratory. She received a B.Tech. in Electrical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, India, and M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Computer Science from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. During 1994-1995, she was a researcher at the University of Texas at Austin, Center for Vision and Image Sciences.Her current research interests include network topology analysis, intrusion detection, monitoring and response in wired and mobile ad hoc wireless computer networks. Balasubramanyam is also working as a patent agent for Hickman Palermo Becker Bingham LLP.

Title: Researcher

Website: http://seclab.cs.ucdavis.edu/

Email: poornima@cs.ucdavis.edu

Phone: (530) 752-2149

Address: University of California, Davis 2245 Kemper Hall Davis CA 95616

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/poornima-balasubramanyam/

Personal Website Text Short: UC Davis Computer Security Lab CS Home | Search UC Davis Computer Security Lab Home Projects People Papers Awards Lab Seminars Department Seminars Visitor Info Internal Computer Security Lab UC Davis One Shields Avenue Davis, CA 95616-8562 Phone:  530.752.1287 Fax: 530.752.4767 Email: seclab-staff Our Mission To improve the current state of computer security, through research and teaching. Co-Directors Karl Levitt | Matt Bishop | Hao Chen | Felix Wu Research "Securing a computer system has traditionally been a battle of wits: the penetrator tries to find the holes, and the designer tries to close them."  — M. Gosser NSA designates University of California, Davis a Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance Education (CAE/IAE) and also a Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance Research (CAE/R). National Information Assurance Education and Training Program Courses mapped to NSTISSI standards Department of Computer Science | University of California, Davis | One Shields Avenue | Davis, CA 95616 Questions or comments: seclab-staff@cs.ucdavis.edu

