Name: Professor Robert C. Leachman

Description: Rob Leachman is a Professor of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research at the University of California, Berkeley. Dr. Leachman is the author of more than 50 technical publications and has supervised more than 30 PhD dissertations concerning production and operations management. He also is President and CEO of Leachman and Associates LLC, a firm providing consulting and software for operations management and logistics analysis to corporations and governments. He received the AB degree in Mathematics and Physics, the MS degree in Operations Research and the PhD degree in Operations Research, all from U. C. Berkeley, and has been a member of the UC Berkeley faculty since 1979. In 1995 Dr. Leachman was the winner of the Franz Edelman Award Competition sponsored by the Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences (INFORMS), recognizing his work to design and implement automated production planning systems in the semiconductor industry. In 2001 Dr. Leachman was the runner-up in the Franz Edelman Award Competition, recognizing his work for automated floor scheduling and cycle time management in the semiconductor industry. The Edelman Award is the highest accolade from INFORMS, given annually recognizing outstanding practice of the management sciences.

Title: Professor

Website: http://www.ieor.berkeley.edu/People/Faculty/leachman.htm

Email: leachman@ieor.berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 642-7054

Address: University of California, Berkeley
4127 Etcheverry Hall #1777
Berkeley, Ca 94720 - 1777

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-robert-c-leachman/

Personal Website Text Short: Page not found - UC Berkeley IEOR Department - Industrial Engineering & Operations Research Skip to content Menu About Department Why IEOR Message from the Chair Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Accreditation Contact Us About IEOR What is IEOR? Fields of Research Where Alumni Work Collaborate Donate Recruit Students Visiting Scholars Outreach Resources Directions Etcheverry Hall Safety & IT Resources Department Financial Resources Hubert Dreyfus Lending Library Jobs Research Overview Optimization & Algorithms Machine Learning & Data Science Stochastic Modeling & Simulation Robotics & Automation Supply Chain Systems Financial Systems Energy Systems Healthcare Systems Labs The far-reaching research done at Berkeley IEOR  has applications in many fields such as energy systems, healthcare, sustainability, innovation, robotics, advanced manufacturing, finance, computer science, data science, and other service systems. Faculty research in Berkeley IEOR specializes in stochastic processes, optimization, and supply chain management. Academics Undergraduate B.S. IEOR B.A. ORMS 5 Year: BS/MS IEOR B.S. M.E.T. Graduate Master of Analytics Master of Engineering Master of Science Doctorate General Courses Graduate Student Handbook Careers News News Alumni Magazine Department News IEOR Impact Sign Up for Our Newsletter For Press & Media Videos Follow us on Social Media Events Department Seminars Alumni Events People Faculty Staff Student Organizations Graduate Students Advisory Board Alumni With more than 4,000 alumni, 20 faculty, 20 advisory board members and 400 students, the IEOR department is a rapidly growing community equipped with tools and resources to make a large impact in industry, academia, and society. Learn more about our faculty’s research, student activities, alumni game-changers, and how Berkeley IEOR is designing a more efficient world. Berkeley Engineering | Alumni | Industry | Give IEOR - Designing a More Efficient World Menu Submit About Department Why IEOR Message from the Chair Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Accreditation Contact Us About IEOR What is IEOR? Fields of Research Where Alumni Work Collaborate Donate Recruit Students Visiting Scholars Outreach Resources Directions Etcheverry Hall Safety & IT Resources Department Financial Resources Hubert Dreyfus Lending Library Jobs Research Overview Optimization & Algorithms Machine Learning & Data Science Stochastic Modeling & Simulation Robotics & Automation Supply Chain Systems Financial Systems Energy Systems Healthcare Systems Labs The far-reaching research done at Berkeley IEOR  has applications in many fields such as energy systems, healthcare, sustainability, innovation, robotics, advanced manufacturing, finance, computer science, data science, and other service systems. Faculty research in Berkeley IEOR specializes in stochastic processes, optimization, and supply chain management. Academics Undergraduate B.S. IEOR B.A. ORMS 5 Year: BS/MS IEOR B.S. M.E.T. Graduate Master of Analytics Master of Engineering Master of Science Doctorate General Courses Graduate Student Handbook Careers News News Alumni Magazine Department News IEOR Impact Sign Up for Our Newsletter For Press & Media Videos Follow us on Social Media Events Department Seminars Alumni Events People Faculty Staff Student Organizations Graduate Students Advisory Board Alumni With more than 4,000 alumni, 20 faculty, 20 advisory board members and 400 students, the IEOR department is a rapidly growing community equipped with tools and resources to make a large impact in industry, academia, and society. Learn more about our faculty’s research, student activities, alumni game-changers, and how Berkeley IEOR is designing a more efficient world. Sorry! That page does not seem to exist. Directions 4141 Etcheverry Hall University of California Berkeley, California 94720-1777 Contact Us Graduate Student Services gradstudentservices-ieor@ berkeley.edu Graduate Admissions gradadmissions-ieor@ berkeley.edu Undergraduate Student Services ieor-student-services@berkeley.edu Public Affairs & Media Relations ieornewsletter@berkeley.edu gnegelev1@berkeley.edu Academics Bachelor's B.A. Operations Research & Management Science B.S. Industrial Engineering & Operations Research Management, Entrepreneurship & Technology Master's Master of Analytics Master of Engineering Master of Science Doctoral Ph.D. Industrial Engineering & Operations Research Explore About News Research Alumni Industry Jobs Give IEOR Magazine Sign Up For Our Newsletter Privacy | Nondiscrimination | Accessibility Copyright © 2024 UC Regents Scroll To Top

