Name: Professor David Patterson

Description: At Berkeley, he led the design and implementation of RISC I, likely the first VLSI Reduced Instruction Set Computer. This research became the foundation of the SPARC architecture, currently used by Fujitsu, Sun Microsystems, and others. (In 1996 Microprocessor Report and COMDEX named SPARC as one of the most significant microprocessors as part of the celebration of the 25th anniversary of the microprocessor.) He was also a leader of the Redundant Arrays of Inexpensive Disks (RAID) project, which led to reliable storage systems from many companies. These projects led to three distinguished dissertation awards from the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM). He was also involved in the Network of Workstations (NOW) project, which led to multitier architectures used by Internet companies such as Inktomi. His current research interests are in the parallel computing revolution using via the Parallel Computing Laboratory (Par Lab) and using the Research Accelerator for Multiple Processors (RAMP) and in Reliable Adaptive Distributed systems in the RAD Lab. He is also co-author of five books, including two with John Hennessy, President of Stanford University.He is a member of both the National Academy of Engineering and the National Academy of Sciences, is a Fellow of the Computer Society of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE), and is also a Fellow of the ACM. He received the inaugural Outstanding Alumnus Award of the UCLA Computer Science Department as part of its 25th Anniversary; he received his A.B., M.S., and Ph.D degrees all from UCLA. In 1995 he received the IEEE Technical Achievement Award. In 1998 he shared the inaugural Test of Time Award with Garth Gibson and Randy Katz, given by the Special Interest Group on Management of Data (SIGMOD) to the most influential paper from the SIGMOD proceedings 10 years earlier. The following year they also shared the IEEE Reynold B. Johnson Information Storage Award “for the development of Redundant Arrays of Inexpensive Disks (RAID).” In 2000 he shared the IEEE John von Neumann Medal with John Hennessy “for creating a revolution in computer architecture through their exploration, popularization, and commercialization of architectural innovations.” In 2005 he shared Japan’s Computer & Communication award with Hennessy, was named to the Silicon Valley Engineering Hall of Fame, and received a Certificate of Congressional Recognition from Congressman Michael Honda. In 2006 he was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the inaugural Katayanagi Prize from CMU. In 2007 he was named a Fellow of the Computer History Museum and a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.His teaching has been honored by his department in 1998 with the Diane S. McEntyre Award for Excellence in Teaching, by the University of California in 1982 with the Distinguished Teaching Award, by Upsilon Pi Epsilon honor society with the Abacus Award in 2006, by ACM in 1991 with the Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award, by IEEE in 1996 with the Undergraduate Teaching Award, and by IEEE again in 2000 with the James H. Mulligan, Jr. Education Medal “for inspirational teaching through the development of creative curricula and teaching methodology, for important textbooks, and for effective integration of education and research missions.”He has been chair of the CS Division in the EECS department at Berkeley, the ACM Special Interest Group in Computer Architecture (SIGARCH), and the Computing Research Association (CRA). He was also elected President of ACM for 2004 to 2006. He was a member of the National Academy of Sciences Computer Science and Telecommunications Board and the CRA Board. He has consulted for several companies, including Digital (now HP), Hewlett Packard, Intel, Microsoft, and Sun Microsystems, and is on the technical advisory board of several companies.His service has been honored with the Distinguished Service Award from the Computing Research Association, a Community Service Award from the Northern California Chapter of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, and by being named a Lifetime National Associate of the National Academies of Engineering and Sciences.

Title: Professor

Website: https://www2.eecs.berkeley.edu/Faculty/Homepages/patterson.html

Email: patterson@cs.berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 642-6587

Address: University of California, Berkeley
579 Soda Hall #1776 
Berkeley, CA 94720 - 1776

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-david-patterson/

Personal Website Text Short: David A. Patterson | EECS at UC Berkeley Skip to Content Expand Search Form Collapse Search Form Expand Main Menu Collapse Main Menu Search for: Search For Students For Faculty/Staff Industry News Events Give Search for: Search About About Expand Submenu About About Overview History Expand Submenu The First Women of EECS Joseph Thomas Gier Diversity Expand Submenu Hear From Women in EECS Broadening Participation in EECS Visiting By the Numbers Special Events Expand Submenu 2022-23 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 The Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) at UC Berkeley offers one of the strongest research and instructional programs in this field anywhere in the world. Blog Academics Academics Expand Submenu Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Admissions & Programs Expand Submenu CS Major EECS Major EECS/CS Program Comparison Chart Second Bachelor's Degree Summer Research Cal Day Graduate Admissions & Programs Expand Submenu Grad Admissions FAQ Industry-Oriented Programs Research-Oriented Programs Fellowships Adding the EECS/CS M.S. From Another Department Recommended Coursework For Current Students Expand Submenu ed | EECS 101 Courses Expand Submenu EE Courses CS Courses Unlike many institutions of similar stature, regular EE and CS faculty teach the vast majority of our courses, and the most exceptional teachers are often also the most exceptional researchers. View Courses Research Research Expand Submenu Research Research Overview Areas Centers & Labs Colloquium Expand Submenu Archive BEARS Symposium Expand Submenu Archive Technical Reports Ph.D. Dissertations Research is the foundation of Berkeley EECS. Faculty, students, and staff work together on cutting-edge projects that cross disciplinary boundaries to improve everyday life and make a difference. EECS Research People People Expand Submenu People People Overview Directory Leadership Faculty Expand Submenu In Memoriam Students Expand Submenu Student Awards Student Organizations Staff Expand Submenu Student Affairs Faculty  Support Course Support Facilities and Engineering Services Financial Services HR IT Support Industrial & Public Relations Alumni Expand Submenu EE Distinguished Alumni CS Distinguished Alumni EECS faculty, students, staff, and alumni are central to our success as one of the most thriving and distinguished departments on the Berkeley campus. Latest News Connect Connect Expand Submenu Connect Connect Overview Support EECS Expand Submenu EECS Excellence Fund Memorial Funds K-12 Outreach Student Affairs Faculty Positions Staff Positions Contact Expand Submenu In an Emergency Consider reaching out for a conversation, attending a department seminar or conference, viewing a lecture on any one of our public channels, or supporting us via a gift to the university. You can help strengthen our dedication to education and outreach, solidify close ties to industry, and nourish a supportive and inclusive culture. Contact us Home / People / Faculty / David A. Patterson David A. Patterson Research Areas Computer Architecture & Engineering (ARC) , Computer Architecture and Systems:  performance, security, RISC-V Operating Systems & Networking (OSNT) Biography David Patterson is the Pardee Professor of Computer Science, Emeritus at the University of California at Berkeley, which he joined after graduating from UCLA in 1976. Dave's research style is to identify critical questions for the IT industry and gather inter-disciplinary groups of faculty and graduate students to answer them. The answer is typically embodied in demonstration systems, and these demonstration systems are later mirrored in commercial products. In addition to research impact, these projects train leaders of our field. The best known projects were Reduced Instruction Set Computers (RISC), Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disks (RAID), and Networks of Workstations (NOW), each of which helped lead to billion dollar industries. A measure of the success of projects is the list of awards won by Patterson and as his teammates: the ACM A.M. Turing Award, the C & C Prize, the IEEE von Neumann Medal, the IEEE Johnson Storage Award, the SIGMOD Test of Time award, the ACM-IEEE Eckert-Mauchly Award, and the Katayanagi Prize. He was also elected to both AAAS societies, the National Academy of Engineering, the National Academy of Sciences, the Silicon Valley Engineering Hall of Fame, and to be a Fellow of the Computer History Museum. The full list includes about 40 awards for research, teaching, and service. In his spare time he coauthored seven books---including two with John Hennessy who is past President of Stanford University and with whom he shared the Turing Award--- Patterson also served as Chair of the Computer Science Division at UC Berkeley, Chair of the Computing Research Association, and President of ACM. He is currently Vice-Chair of the Board of Directors of the RISC-V Foundation. Education 1976, PhD, Computer Science, UCLA 1970, MS, Computer Science, UCLA 1969, AB, Mathematics, UCLA Selected Publications N. P. Jouppi, D. Yoon, G. Kurian, S. Li, N. Patil, J. Laudon, C. Young, and D. A. Patterson, "A Domain-Specific Supercomputer for Training Deep Neural Networks," Communications of the ACM , vol. 63, no. in press, 2020. J. L. Hennessy and D. A. Patterson, " A new golden age for computer architecture. ," Commun. ACM , vol. 62, no. 2, pp. 48--60, Feb. 2019. N. P. Jouppi, C. Young, N. Patil, D. A. Patterson, G. Agrawal, R. Bajwa, S. Bates, S. Bhatia, N. Boden, A. Borchers, and  et al, "In-datacenter performance analysis of a tensor processing unit," in 2017 ACM/IEEE 44th Annual International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA) , 2017, pp. 1--12. D. A. Patterson and A. Waterman, The RISC-V Reader: An Open Architecture Atlas , 1st ed., Strawberry Canyon, 2017. J. L. Hennessy and D. A. Patterson, Computer Architecture: A Quantitative Approach , 6th ed., Computer Architecture and Design, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, 2017. D. A. Patterson and J. L. Hennessy, Computer Organization and Design RISC-V Edition The Hardware/Software Interface , 5th ed., Amsterdam; Boston: Elsevier/Morgan Kaufmann, 2017. A. Waterman, Y. Lee, R. Avizienis, D. A. Patterson, and K. Asanović, " The RISC-V Instruction Set Manual Volume II: Privileged Architecture Version 1.9.1 ," EECS Department, University of California, Berkeley, Tech. Rep. UCB/EECS-2016-161, Nov. 2016. A. Waterman, Y. Lee, D. A. Patterson, and K. Asanović, " The RISC-V Instruction Set Manual, Volume I: User-Level ISA, Version 2.1 ," EECS Department, University of California, Berkeley, Tech. Rep. UCB/EECS-2016-118, May 2016. A. Fox, D. A. Patterson, and S. Joseph, Engineering software as a service: an agile approach using cloud computing , Strawberry Canyon LLC, 2013. M. Zaharia, W. J. Bolosky, K. Curtis, A. Fox, D. A. Patterson, S. Shenker, I. Stoica, R. M. Karp, and T. Sittler, " Faster and More Accurate Sequence Alignment with SNAP ," CoRR , vol. abs/1111.5572, 2011. M. Armbrust, A. Fox, R. Griffith, A. D. Joseph, R. H. Katz, A. Konwinski, G. Lee, D. A. Patterson, A. Rabkin, I. Stoica, and M. Zaharia, " A view of cloud computing ," Communications of the ACM , vol. 53, no. 4, pp. 50-58, April 2010. K. Asanović, R. Bodik, J. Demmel, T. Keaveny, K. Keutzer, N. Morgan, D. A. Patterson, K. Sen, J. Wawrzynek, D. Wessel, and K. A. Yelick, " A View of the Parallel Computing Landscape ," Communications of the ACM , vol. 52, no. 10, pp. 56-67, Oct. 2009. D. A. Patterson, " New Directions for CACM? ," Communications of the ACM - Personal information management , vol. 49, no. 1, pp. 33-35, Jan. 2006. T. E. Anderson, D. E. Culler, and D. A. Patterson, " A case for NOW (Networks of Workstations) ," IEEE Micro , vol. 15, no. 1, pp. 54-64, Feb. 1995. D. E. Culler, R. M. Karp, D. A. Patterson, A. Sahay, K. E. Schauser, E. E. Santos, R. Subramonian, and T. von Eicken, " LogP: Towards a realistic model of parallel computation ," in Proc. 4th ACM SIGPLAN Symp. on Principles and Practice of Parallel Programming , New York, NY: ACM Press, 1993, pp. 1-12. D. A. Patterson, D. S. Kiser, and D. N. Smith, Computing Unbound: Using Computers in the Arts and Sciences , W.W. Norton & Company, 1989. D. A. Patterson, G. Gibson, and R. H. Katz, " Triple Test of Time Award: A case for Redundant Arrays of Inexpensive Disks (RAID) ," in Proc. 1988 ACM SIGMOD Intl. Conf. on Management of Data (SIGMOD '88) , H. Boral and P. Larson, Eds., New York, NY: The Association for Computing Machinery, Inc., 1988, pp. 109-116. D. A. Patterson and C. H. Séquin, " RISC I: A Reduced Instruction Set  VLSI Computer ," in Proc. 8th Intl. Symp. on Computer Architecture , Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE Computer Society Press, 1981, pp. 443-457. D. A. Patterson and D. R. Ditzel, " The case for the Reduced Instruction Set Computer ," ACM SIGARCH Computer Architecture News , vol. 8, no. 6, pp. 25-33, Oct. 1980. Awards, Memberships and Fellowships NAI Charles Stark Draper Prize for Engineering ,
                                                                                2022 Frontiers of Knowledge Award in Information and Communication Technologies ,
                                                                                2020 Textbook Excellence Award ("Texty") ,
                                                                                2019 ACM A.M. Turing Award ,
                                                                                2017 Berkeley Citation ,
                                                                                2016 Richard A. Tapia Achievement Award ,
                                                                                2016 IEEE Life Member ,
                                                                                2016 Most Promising New Textbook Award ,
                                                                                2016 Textbook Excellence Award ("Texty") ,
                                                                                2014 Jean-Claude Laprie Award in Dependable Computing ,
                                                                                2012 ACM SIGARCH Distinguished Service Award ,
                                                                                2011 ACM SIGOPS Hall of Fame Award ,
                                                                                2011 Eckert-Mauchly Award ,
                                                                                2008 UCLA Samueli Engineering Achievement in Academia ,
                                                                                2008 American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) Fellow ,
                                                                                2007 ACM Distinguished Service Award ,
                                                                                2007 Computer History Museum (CHM) Fellow ,
                                                                                2007 Katayanagi Prize for Research Excellence ,
                                                                                2007 American Academy of Arts and Sciences Member ,
                                                                                2006 CRA Distinguished Service Award ,
                                                                                2006 National Academy of Sciences (NAS) Member ,
                                                                                2006 Abacus Award ,
                                                                                2006 Silicon Valley Engineering Hall of Fame ,
                                                                                2005 Computers and Communications (C&C) Prize ,
                                                                                2004 IEEE James H. Mulligan Education Medal ,
                                                                                2000 IEEE John von Neumann Medal ,
                                                                                2000 IEEE Reynold B. Johnson Information Storage Systems Award ,
                                                                                1999 ACM SIGMOD Test of Time Award ,
                                                                                1999 Diane S. McEntyre Award for Excellence in Teaching Computer Science ,
                                                                                1998 IEEE Undergraduate Teaching Award ,
                                                                                1995 CS Technical Achievement Award ,
                                                                                1995 UCLA Computer Science Distinguished Alumni Award ,
                                                                                1994 Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Fellow ,
                                                                                1994 National Academy of Engineering (NAE) Member ,
                                                                                1993 Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award ,
                                                                                1991 Institute of Electrical & Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Fellow ,
                                                                                1990 UC Berkeley Distinguished Teaching Award ,
                                                                                1982 Photo Larger Photo Links Personal Homepage Publications Dissertations Contact Information 579 Soda Hall tel: 642-6587 fax: 643-7352 pattrsn@cs.berkeley.edu Office Hours Mondays, by appointment, 579 Soda Assistant Ivan Ortega 465A Soda Soda (510) 708-8604 iaortega657@berkeley.edu Research Support Amy Frithsen frithsen@berkeley.edu About History Diversity Visiting Special Events People Directory Leadership Faculty Staff Students Alumni Connect Support Us K-12 Outreach Faculty Positions Staff Positions Contact Academics Undergrad Admissions & Programs Graduate Admissions & Programs Courses Prospective Women Students Current Students Resources Room Reservations My EECS Info For Students For Grads For Undergrads For ASEs IT Services Facilities/Safety For Faculty/Staff Visiting Scholars Research Areas Centers & Labs Projects Technical Reports PhD Dissertations Joint Colloquium BEARS Symposium Industry Recruit Students Corporate Access Learn more about the Campaign for Berkeley and Graduate Fellowships. Give to EECS Berkeley EECS on Twitter Berkeley EECS on Instagram Berkeley EECS on LinkedIn Berkeley EECS on YouTube EE CS UC Berkeley Berkeley Engineering CDSS Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy Contact © 2023 UC Regents

