Name: Professor Clark Nguyen

Description: Clark T.-C. Nguyen received the B. S., M. S., and Ph.D. degrees from the University of California at Berkeley in 1988, 1991, and 1994, respectively, all in Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences. In 1995, he joined the faculty of the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, where he was a Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science up until mid-2006. In 2006, he joined the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at the University of California at Berkeley, where he is now a Professor and a co-Director of the Berkeley Sensor & Actuator Center. His research interests focus on micro electromechanical systems (MEMS) and include integrated micromechanical signal processors and sensors, merged circuit/micromechanical technologies, RF communication architectures, and integrated circuit design and technology. From 1995 to 1997, he was a member of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)’s New Millennium Integrated Product Development Team on Communications, which roadmapped future communications technologies for NASA use into the turn of the century. In 2001, Prof. Nguyen founded Discera, Inc., a company aimed at commercializing communication products, based upon MEMS technology, with an initial focus on the very vibrating micromechanical resonators pioneered by his research. He served as Vice President and Chief Technology Officer (CTO) of Discera until mid-2002, at which point he joined the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) on an IPA, where he served for 3.5 years as the Program Manager of the MEMS, Micro Power Generation (MPG), Chip-Scale Atomic Clock (CSAC), MEMS Exchange (MX), Harsh Environment Robust Micromechanical Technology (HERMIT), Micro Gas Analyzers (MGA), Radio Isotope Micropower Sources (RIMS), RF MEMS Improvement (RFMIP), Navigation-Grade Integrated Micro Gyroscopes (NGIMG), and Micro Cryogenic Coolers (MCC) programs, in the Microsystems Technology Office of DARPA.Prof. Nguyen received the 1938E Award for Research and Teaching Excellence from the Uni-versity of Michigan in 1998, a Univ. of Michigan EECS Departmental Achievement Award in 1999, the Ruth and Joel Spira Award for Outstanding Teaching in 2000, the University of Michigan’s 2001 Henry Russel Award, a UC Berkeley EECS Department EE Outstanding Teaching Award in 2013. He received the 2006 Cady Award from the IEEE UFFC society and the 2017 IEEE Robert Bosch Micro and Nano Electro Mechanical Systems Award. Among his publication accolades are the 2007 IEEE Transactions on Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics, and Frequency Control Best Paper Award, the 2005 IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference Jack Raper Award for Outstanding Technology Direc-tions, the Best Invited Paper Award at the 2004 IEEE Custom Integrated Circuits Conference, the 2004 DARPA Tech Best Technical Presentation Award, and together with his students, eight Best Student Paper Awards at major conferences that include the IEEE Int. Frequency Control Sympo-sium, the IEEE Int. Microelectromechanical Systems Conference, the IEEE Int. Electron Devices Meeting, and the Int. Conf. on Solid-State Sensors, Actuators, & Microsystems (Transducers). To date, he has organized and chaired a total of 37 IEEE and DARPA workshops, and was the Technical Program Chair and General Chair of the 2010 and 2011 IEEE Int. Frequency Control Symposiums; as well as a Co-General Chair of the 2017 IEEE Int. Micro Electro Mechanical Systems Conference. Prof. Nguyen is a Fellow of the IEEE and is currently President of the IEEE (Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics, and Frequency Control (UFFC) Society.

Title: Professor

Website: http://www.eecs.berkeley.edu/Faculty/Homepages/ctnguyen.html

Email: ctnguyen@eecs.berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 642-6251

Address: University of California, Berkeley
574 Cory Hall
Berkeley, Ca 94720

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-clark-nguyen/

Personal Website Text Short: Clark Nguyen | EECS at UC Berkeley Skip to Content Expand Search Form Collapse Search Form Expand Main Menu Collapse Main Menu Search for: Search For Students For Faculty/Staff Industry News Events Give Search for: Search About About Expand Submenu About About Overview History Expand Submenu The First Women of EECS Joseph Thomas Gier Diversity Expand Submenu Hear From Women in EECS Broadening Participation in EECS Visiting By the Numbers Special Events Expand Submenu 2022-23 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 The Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) at UC Berkeley offers one of the strongest research and instructional programs in this field anywhere in the world. Blog Academics Academics Expand Submenu Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Admissions & Programs Expand Submenu CS Major EECS Major EECS/CS Program Comparison Chart Second Bachelor's Degree Summer Research Cal Day Graduate Admissions & Programs Expand Submenu Grad Admissions FAQ Industry-Oriented Programs Research-Oriented Programs Fellowships Adding the EECS/CS M.S. From Another Department Recommended Coursework For Current Students Expand Submenu ed | EECS 101 Courses Expand Submenu EE Courses CS Courses Unlike many institutions of similar stature, regular EE and CS faculty teach the vast majority of our courses, and the most exceptional teachers are often also the most exceptional researchers. View Courses Research Research Expand Submenu Research Research Overview Areas Centers & Labs Colloquium Expand Submenu Archive BEARS Symposium Expand Submenu Archive Technical Reports Ph.D. Dissertations Research is the foundation of Berkeley EECS. Faculty, students, and staff work together on cutting-edge projects that cross disciplinary boundaries to improve everyday life and make a difference. EECS Research People People Expand Submenu People People Overview Directory Leadership Faculty Expand Submenu In Memoriam Students Expand Submenu Student Awards Student Organizations Staff Expand Submenu Student Affairs Faculty  Support Course Support Facilities and Engineering Services Financial Services HR IT Support Industrial & Public Relations Alumni Expand Submenu EE Distinguished Alumni CS Distinguished Alumni EECS faculty, students, staff, and alumni are central to our success as one of the most thriving and distinguished departments on the Berkeley campus. Latest News Connect Connect Expand Submenu Connect Connect Overview Support EECS Expand Submenu EECS Excellence Fund Memorial Funds K-12 Outreach Student Affairs Faculty Positions Staff Positions Contact Expand Submenu In an Emergency Consider reaching out for a conversation, attending a department seminar or conference, viewing a lecture on any one of our public channels, or supporting us via a gift to the university. You can help strengthen our dedication to education and outreach, solidify close ties to industry, and nourish a supportive and inclusive culture. Contact us Home / People / Faculty / Clark Nguyen Clark Nguyen Research Areas Micro/Nano Electro Mechanical Systems (MEMS) Integrated Circuits (INC) Physical Electronics (PHY) Design, Modeling and Analysis (DMA) Research Centers Berkeley Sensor & Actuator Center (BSAC) Teaching Schedule Fall 2024 EECS 16B. Designing Information Devices and Systems II , TuTh 09:30-10:59, Wheeler 150 Biography Clark T.-C. Nguyen received the B. S., M. S., and Ph.D. degrees from the University of California at Berkeley in 1988, 1991, and 1994, respectively, all in Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences. In 1995, he joined the faculty of the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, where he was a Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science up until mid-2006. In 2006, he joined the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at the University of California at Berkeley, where he is now a Professor and a co-Director of the Berkeley Sensor & Actuator Center. His research interests focus on micro electromechanical systems (MEMS) and include integrated micromechanical signal processors and sensors, merged circuit/micromechanical technologies, RF communication architectures, and integrated circuit design and technology. From 1995 to 1997, he was a member of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)’s New Millennium Integrated Product Development Team on Communications, which roadmapped future communications technologies for NASA use into the turn of the century. In 2001, Prof. Nguyen founded Discera, Inc., the first company to commercialize MEMS-based timing products using the very vibrating micromechanical resonators pioneered by his research. He served as Vice President and Chief Technology Officer (CTO) of Discera until mid-2002, at which point he joined the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) on an IPA, where he served for 3.5 years as the Program Manager of the MEMS, Micro Power Generation (MPG), Chip-Scale Atomic Clock (CSAC), MEMS Exchange (MX), Harsh Environment Robust Micromechanical Technology (HERMIT), Micro Gas Analyzers (MGA), Radio Isotope Micropower Sources (RIMS), RF MEMS Improvement (RFMIP), Navigation-Grade Integrated Micro Gyroscopes (NGIMG), and Micro Cryogenic Coolers (MCC) programs, in the Microsystems Technology Office of DARPA. Prof. Nguyen received the 1938E Award for Research and Teaching Excellence from the University of Michigan in 1998, a Univ. of Michigan EECS Departmental Achievement Award in 1999, the Ruth and Joel Spira Award for Outstanding Teaching in 2000, the University of Michigan’s 2001 Henry Russel Award, a UC Berkeley EECS Department EE Outstanding Teaching Award in 2013. He received the 2006 Cady Award from the IEEE UFFC society and the 2017 IEEE Robert Bosch Micro and Nano Electro Mechanical Systems Award. Among his publication accolades are the 2007 IEEE Transactions on Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics, and Frequency Control Best Paper Award, the 2005 IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference Jack Raper Award for Outstanding Technology Directions, the Best Invited Paper Award at the 2004 IEEE Custom Integrated Circuits Conference, the 2004 DARPA Tech Best Technical Presentation Award, and together with his students, ten Best Student Paper Awards at major conferences. To date, he has organized and chaired a total of 37 IEEE and DARPA workshops, and was the Technical Program Chair and General Chair of the 2010 and 2011 IEEE Int. Frequency Control Symposiums; as well as a Co-General Chair of the 2017 IEEE Int. Micro Electro Mechanical Systems Conference. Prof. Nguyen is a Fellow of the IEEE and served as President of the IEEE Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics, and Frequency Control (UFFC) Society from 2016-2017. He is presently the Senior Past-President of the society. In 2018, he founded and began a term as President of the IEEE MEMS Technical Community, which intends to transition to an IEEE Council over the next few years Education 1994, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering & Computer Sciences, Univ. of California at Berkeley 1991, M.S., Electrical Engineering & Computer Sciences, Univ. of California at Berkeley 1989, B.S., Electrical Engineering & Computer Sciences, Univ. of California at Berkeley Selected Publications T. L. Naing, T. O. Rocheleau, E. Alon, and C. Nguyen, " Low-Power MEMS-Based Pierce Oscillator Using a 61-MHz Capacitive-Gap Disk Resonator ," IEEE Transactions on Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics, and Frequency Control , vol. 67, no. 7, pp. 1377–1391, July 2020. M. Akgul, A. Ozgurluk, and C. Nguyen, " RF Channel-Select Micromechanical Disk Filters—Part II: Demonstration ," IEEE Transactions on Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics, and Frequency Control , vol. 66, no. 1, pp. 218–235, Jan. 2019. A. Ozgurluk, M. Akgul, and C. Nguyen, " RF Channel-Select Micromechanical Disk Filters—Part I: Design ," IEEE Transactions on Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics, and Frequency Control , vol. 66, no. 1, pp. 192–217, Jan. 2019. N. Thura Lin, R. Tristan, R. Zeying, L. Sheng-Shian, and C. Nguyen, " High-Q spoke-supported ring resonators ," IEEE/ASME J. Microelectromech. Syst. , vol. 25, no. 1, pp. 11-29, Feb. 2016. L. Hung and C. Nguyen, " Capacitive-piezoelectric transducers for high-Q micromechanical AlN resonators ," IEEE/ASME J. Microelectromech. Syst. , vol. 24, no. 2, pp. 458-473, April 2015. A. Mehmet, W. Lingqi, R. Zeying, and C. Nguyen, " A negative-capacitance equivalent circuit model for parallel-plate capacitive-gap-transduced micro-mechanical resonators ," IEEE Trans. Ultrason., Ferroelect., Freq. Contr. , vol. 61, no. 5, pp. 849-869, May 2014. C. Nguyen, " MEMS technology for timing and frequency control ," IEEE Trans. Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics and Frequency Control , vol. 54, no. 2, pp. 251-270, Feb. 2007. C. Nguyen and J. Kitching, " Towards chip-scale atomic clocks (Jack Raper Award for Best Paper Award) ," in 2005 IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC 2005). Digest of Technical Papers. , Vol. 1, Piscataway, NJ: IEEE Press, 2005, pp. 84-85. K. Wang, A. Wong, and C. Nguyen, " VHF free-free beam high-Q micromechanical resonators ," IEEE/ASME J. Microelectromechanical Systems , vol. 9, no. 3, pp. 347-360, Sep. 2000. C. Nguyen, " Frequency-selective MEMS for miniaturized low-power communication devices (Invited Paper) ," IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory and Techniques , vol. 47, no. 8, pp. 1486-1503, Aug. 1999. Awards, Memberships and Fellowships IEEE EDS Robert Bosch Micro and Nano Electro Mechanical Systems (MEMS) Award ,
                                                                                2017 Electrical Engineering Award for Outstanding Teaching ,
                                                                                2013 Institute of Electrical & Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Fellow ,
                                                                                2007 IEEE Electron Devices Society (EDS) Fellows ,
                                                                                2007 SSCS ISSCC Jack Raper Award for Outstanding Technology Directions Paper ,
                                                                                2006 UFFC W. G. Cady Frequency Control Award ,
                                                                                2006 Photo Links Personal Homepage Publications Dissertations Contact Information 574 Cory Hall tel: 510-642-6251 ctnguyen@berkeley.edu Office Hours By Appointment, 231B Cory Assistant Alex Sandoval 510 642-0253 alexandersandoval@eecs.berkeley.edu Research Support Mary Cuison 633 Davis 2-5734 mcuison@berkeley.edu About History Diversity Visiting Special Events People Directory Leadership Faculty Staff Students Alumni Connect Support Us K-12 Outreach Faculty Positions Staff Positions Contact Academics Undergrad Admissions & Programs Graduate Admissions & Programs Courses Prospective Women Students Current Students Resources Room Reservations My EECS Info For Students For Grads For Undergrads For ASEs IT Services Facilities/Safety For Faculty/Staff Visiting Scholars Research Areas Centers & Labs Projects Technical Reports PhD Dissertations Joint Colloquium BEARS Symposium Industry Recruit Students Corporate Access Learn more about the Campaign for Berkeley and Graduate Fellowships. Give to EECS Berkeley EECS on Twitter Berkeley EECS on Instagram Berkeley EECS on LinkedIn Berkeley EECS on YouTube EE CS UC Berkeley Berkeley Engineering CDSS Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy Contact © 2023 UC Regents

