Name: Professor Daniel Fletcher

Description: Dr. Dan Fletcher is the department chair in the bioengineering department and biological systems program at the University of California, Berkeley, where his research focuses on the biophysics of cell movements and the cytoskeleton and development of biomedical devices. Recent work from his laboratory includes direct measurement of the actin networks that drive crawling motility, development of vesicle encapsulation technology for cellular reconstitution, and demonstration of fluorescence microscopy on a mobile phone.Fletcher received a B.S.E. from Princeton University and a D.Phil. from Oxford University, where he was a Rhodes Scholar. He received a Ph.D. in mechanical engineering from Stanford University as an NSF graduate research fellow and was a postdoctoral fellow in biochemistry at the Stanford University School of Medicine as part of the Stanford Bio-X program. His research has received an NSF CAREER Award, a National Inventors Hall of Fame Collegiate Award, and was designated “Best of What’s New” by Popular Science magazine.Last year Fletcher was named a White House Fellow and worked with the Office of Science and Technology Policy at the White House. He is also deputy director of the physical biosciences division of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL), faculty affiliate of the QB3 and CITRIS Institutes at UC Berkeley, a member of the bioengineering, biophysics, and nanoscale science and engineering graduate groups, and deputy director of the Cell Propulsion Lab, an NIH Nanomedicine Development Center based at UCSF.

Title: Department Chair

Website: http://fletchlab.berkeley.edu/

Email: fletch@berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 643-5624

Address: University of California, Berkeley
608B Stanley Hall #1762
Berkeley, Ca 94720 - 1762

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-daniel-fletcher/

Personal Website Text Short: Fletcher Lab – UC Berkeley Fletcher Lab UC Berkeley Research Highlights Publications People Alumni CellScope Contact Directions Research Highlights Publications People Alumni CellScope Contact Directions Home Visualization and Control of Biological Assembly Contact Lab Phone: 510.642.5587 |      Office Phone: 510.664.4404 If you are interested in becoming part of the lab as an undergrad, grad student or postdoc please click HERE for important information. Address Mailing Address: 648 Stanley Hall MC 1762, Berkeley, CA, 94720, USA Lab Location: 648 Stanley Hall (across the street from the Greek Theatre) Professor Fletcher’s Office: 608B Stanley Hall Directions and maps © 2024 Fletcher Lab @ UC Berkeley. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Statement .

