Name: Professor Iris Tommelein

Description: Iris D. Tommelein is Professor of Engineering and Project Management, in the Civil and Environmental Engineering Department at U.C. Berkeley. She teaches and conducts research developing the theory and principles of project-based production management for the architecture-engineering-construction industry, what is termed ‘lean construction.’ Current research focuses on the work specialty contractors and suppliers perform and how they can become integral participants in design-build teams in order to increase process and product development performance. Professor Tommelein is an expert on construction site logistics, layout, as well as materials management, supply-chain management, and e-commerce. Her work involves computer-aided design, planning, scheduling, simulation, and visualization of construction processes; and the use of information technology including web-based systems, wireless communication, bar-coding, and laser-based positioning systems.Professor Tommelein is the Executive Director of the newly formed Project Production Systems Laboratory (P2SL), a research institute dedicated to developing and deploying knowledge and tools for project management as well as a learning lab for the Northern California construction industry. She is an active participant in the International Group for Lean Construction and she serves on the Board of Directors of the Lean Construction Institute. Professor Tommelein served on the Executive Committee of ASCE’s Technical Council on Computing and Information Technology (TCCIT). She is a member of the Construction Research Council of the Construction Institute of ASCE.Professor Tommelein is the 2002 recipient of the Walter L. Huber Civil Engineering Prize “for her research on civil engineering computing for managing project-based production systems in the engineering-architecture-construction industry”.

Title: Professor

Website: http://www.ce.berkeley.edu/~tommelein/

Email: tommelein@ce.berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 643-8678

Address: University of California, Berkeley
215-A McLaughlin Hall #1712
Berkeley, CA 94720 - 1712

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-iris-tommelein/

Personal Website Text Short: Iris D. Tommelein, Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering,
U.C. Berkeley P2SL - Project Production Systems Laboratory Biography Research Pubs Teaching Students Memberships Conference
      Organization Education Links Iris D. Tommelein Professor Interests: lean construction, supply-chain management, e-commerce,
    engineering and management of project-based production systems, materials
    management, construction processes, logistics and layout, information
    technology. Mailing Address: Engineering
      and Project Management Program Civil and Environmental Engineering
      Department 212 McLaughlin
      Hall University of California Berkeley, CA 94720-1712 Office Hours: Best to  email tommelein@berkeley.edu for an appointment. Email: tommelein@ce.berkeley.edu Phone: (510) 643-8678 Biography Iris D. Tommelein is Professor of Engineering and Project Management, 
in the Civil and Environmental Engineering Department at the University of California, Berkeley, USA.
 She teaches and conducts research to develop and advance the theory and principles 
of project-based production management, applied to--but not limited to--the 
Architecture-Engineering-Construction (AEC) industry, what is termed 'Lean Construction.' Professor Tommelein is an expert on construction site layout and logistics, 
as well as materials- and supply-chain management. Her work experience is in 
commercial building- and industrial construction. Her research focuses on 
enabling integrated owner-designer-builder teams to continuously improve their 
process- and product development performance. Current research topics include 
adaptive project leadership, design- and change management, and 'green' 
life-cycle engineering. Much of her work builds on using IT to support 
product and process design, planning, scheduling, simulation, and visualization 
(such as the development and use of Building Information Models (BIM)). Professor Tommelein directs the Project Production Systems Laboratory 
(P2SL - p2sl.berkeley.edu ) 
at UC Berkeley. P2SL is a research laboratory 
dedicated to developing and deploying knowledge and tools for project management, 
as well as a learning lab for the Northern California construction industry. 
She is an active participant in the International Group for Lean Construction 
(IGLC - www.iglc.net ) 
and a Research Affiliate of the Lean Construction Institute 
(LCI - www.leanconstruction.org ). 
She served on the Executive Committee of ASCE's 
Technical Council on Computing and Information Technology (TCCIT) and 
is a member of the Construction Research Council of the Construction Institute of ASCE. 
She is the 2002 recipient of the Walter L. Huber Civil Engineering Prize 
awarded by ASCE "for her research on civil engineering
    computing for managing project-based production systems in the 
engineering-architecture-construction industry". Professor Tommelein's education includes a 5-year Civil Engineer-Architect degree from the VUB (Belgium), 
an MS (Construction Engineering & Management), an MS (Computer Science), as well 
as a PhD (Civil Engineering) all from Stanford University (USA). Research · Adaptive Project Leadership · Lean Construction Improving Design Management Using the Design Structure Matrix Target Value Design to Support 'Green' Project Financing Development and Use of Building Information Models (BIM) Set-based Design—SetPlan Tolerances (Management of Dimensional Variation)
         e.g., Hollow Metal Doors, Cast-in-Place Concrete, Penetration and
         Connections Improving
         Design Fitness by Applying Tolerance Analysis, Methods Knowledge, and
         Set-based Design Built-in Quality and Mistake-proofing (Poka Yoke) Work Structuring Reducing Lead Times for Engineered-to-order
         Products Rebar Electrical Switchgear HVAC Sheet Metal Pipe Supports Pre-engineered Buildings Stainless Steel Process Equipment and Piping Coordinating
         Specialists New
         Technologies to Re-Engineer Materials Handling on Construction Sites Constraint-based
         Work Package Scheduling —WorkPlan · Supply Chain
    Management & e-Commerce The Value Chain - Adding Value tot the Supply
         Chain: Value Chain Mapping, Performance Assessment, and Improvement Improving Construction Supply Chain Performance Role of the Distributor in the Age of e-Commerce · Materials
    Management Tool
         and Material Management Systems · Site Layout
    Design Alternative
         Strategies for Positioning Temporary Facilities—SightPlan Interactive Graphical System to Create Layouts that
         Change over Time—MovePlan Space Schedule Planning and
         Control—MoveCapPlan Heuristic
         Optimization for Space-Time Scheduling—MoveSchedule · Integrated
    Design, Planning, Scheduling, Simulation, and Visualization (nD CAD) of
    Construction Processes Knowledge-Based
         System Integrating Project with Process Planning and
         Simulation—CIPROS Case-based Reasoning about Product Models for
         Schedule Reuse Schedule
          Reuse for Power Plant Boiler Erection—CasePlan Use of Computers, Information Technology, Wireless
         Communication, Bar-coding, and Laser-based Positioning Systems Publications Click
    here to go to the publications page. Teaching · Fall 2015 CE 268A Lean Construction Concepts and Methods CE 298 Construction Engineering and Management
          Seminar · Spring 2016 CE 268B Lean Construction and Supply Chain
          Management · Other courses
    taught at The University of California, Berkeley, CA (semester last taught) E 10 Engineering Design and Analysis (Fall 2011) CE 92 Introduction to Civil and Environmental
          Engineering CE 167 Engineering Project Management CE 169A Module 1: Web-Based Systems for
          Engineering and Management CE 169B Module 2: Database Systems for Engineering
          and Management CE 169C Module 3: Visualization and Simulation (Spring 2012) CE 298 Simulation of Lean Construction --
          Research Seminar taught jointly with Glenn Ballard Lean Construction -- 2-day seminar offered through U.C. Extension 's Berkeley
          Summer Engineering Institute, taught jointly with Glenn Ballard (June 2006) · Courses taught at
    The University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, 1989 to 1995 CEE 432 Construction Engineering (Equipment and
          Methods) CEE 502 Artificial Intelligence Applications in
          Civil Engineering CEE 536 Critical Path Methods CEE 538 Concrete Construction CEE 830 Construction Engineering and Management
          Seminar Research Students Current Research Students (advisor or co-advisor with Prof. Glenn Ballard) Paz Arroyo (PhD Student, E&PM) Audrey Bascoul (PhD Student, E&PM) Nigel Blampied (PhD Student, E&PM) Adam Frandson (PhD Student, E&PM) Eder Martinez (PhD Student, E&PM) Graduates · Thais da Costa Lago Alves (PhD
    Fall 2005, EPM) Research:
    "Buffering Practices in HVAC Ductwork Supply Chains." · Roberto J. Arbulu (M.Eng. Spring 2002, CE&M) Current Position: Strategic
    Project Solutions Research: "Improving Construction Supply Chain Performance: Pipe
    Supports and System Interfaces." · Chang-Sun (Kevin) Chin (M.Eng.
    Spring 2005, EPM) Research:
    "Reducing Lead Times for Rebar Delivery" · Hyun Jeong (James) Choo (PhD Spring 2003, CE&M) Current Position:
    CTO at Strategic
    Project Solutions View research poster on: Constraint-based
    Work Package Scheduling · Jan A. Elfving (PhD Fall 2003, E&PM) Current Position:
    Employee at Skanska and Lecturer at Helsinki University of
    Technology. Dissertation Title: Exploration of Opportunities to Reduce Lead Times for
    Engineered-To-Ordered Products. · Peter Feng (PhD
    Spring 2009, E&PM) · Nuno Gil (PhD Fall 2001, CE&M) Current position:
    Lecturer at the University of Manchester - Institute of Science and
    Technology (UMIST) Research: "Coordinating Specialists." View research poster on: HVAC
    Expediter: Process-Product Simulation to Support Design-Build Organizations · Farook Hamzeh (PhD
    Summer 2010, E&PM) · Hyun Woo Lee (PhD Spring 2012, E&PM) · Colin Milberg (PhD Fall 2006, E&PM) Research:
    "Tolerance Allocation in the AEC Supply Chain." · Kristen Parrish (PhD
    Spring 2009, CEE Systems) Research: "Management of Rebar Design & Detailing. " · Zofia Rybkowski (PhD Summer 2010, E&PM) Research:
    " Target Costing in Design" · Carol Soares (Graduate Student, E&PM) · Stan Tuholski (PhD
    Spring 2009, CEE Systems) · Cynthia C.Y. Tsao (PhD Fall 2005, E&PM) Current position:
    Lean Coordinator, Consigli, Boston, MA Research: "Use of Work Structuring to Increase Performance of
    Project-based Production Systems." Professional
    Memberships and Affiliations University
    of California at Berkeley · Project
    Production Systems Laboratory (P2SL), College of Engineering,
    Director · Center
    for the Built Environment (CBE), College of Environmental
    Design, Research
    Staff · U.C. Berkeley Supply Chain
    Management Initiative (SCMI), Haas School of Business,
    University of California, Berkeley, Affiliated Faculty American
    Society of Civil Engineers · Technical Council
    of Computer Practices Executive Committee 1995-99, Chair 1997-98 Expert Systems and Artificial Intelligence
          Committee, Member and EXCOM Representative, Past-chair Database and Information Management Committee,
          Member and EXCOM Representative · Construction Institute Construction Research Council, Member Constructability Committe, Member Lean
    Construction Institute Research Affiliate, 2010-current Member of Board of Directors, 1997-2010 The Lean Construction Institute organizes educational
    seminars and offers consulting services that promote the implementation of
    lean construction practices. The aim of the Institute is to identify and
    advance best practices and develop the theory for lean production as it
    applies to the architecture/engineering/construction (AEC) industry. International
    Group for Lean Construction Member since 1997 The Seventh Annual Conference of the International Group for
    Lean Construction was held from 26 to 28 July 1999 in Berkeley, California.
    Have a look at the Proceedings
    IGLC-7 . The proceedings of this 1999 conference and those of other
    years are accessible through the main IGLC website. Member of Board of Consultants Journal
         of Construction Research , as of 2003 Editorial Advisory Board Member Lean
         Construction Journal (LCJ), member of Advisory Board as of Fall 2003 LCJ is an
    international refereed journal devoted to Lean Construction practice and
    research. The primary objective is to stimulate a systematic rethinking of
    the construction process both on and off-site by providing a forum for
    disseminating knowledge and exchanging ideas between industry and academia.
    LCJ publishes high-quality practical papers that report developments,
    provoke new thinking and chronicle the history of Lean Construction in a
    manner that is readily accessible to reflective practitioners and clients
    of the Architecture, Engineering, and Construction (AEC) Industry and AEC
    students and faculty. LCJ publishes both basic and applied research papers
    and reports on projects from practitioners, consultants and academics. Engineering,
         Construction, and Architectural Management (ECAM), Regional
         Editor ITCON —Information
         Technologies in Construction, member of Editorial Board This electronic journal
    is distributed freely to anyone wishing to subscribe. The primary means of
    distribution is the World Wide Web. This journal has been endorsed by and
    is the host journal of CIB-78 , a working group of the CIB (International Council for Research and Innovation in Building and
    Construction). It is sponsored by the Swedish Council for Building Research . Conference
    Organization 2012 20th Annual Conference of
          the International Group for Lean Construction , (IGLC-20), San Diego,
          California, Ken Walsh (Chair) and Iris Tommelein &Christine
          Pasquire (Technical Chairs) and International Advisory Board Member.
          Organized by the International Group for Lean Construction (IGLC). 2007 15th Annual Conference
          of the International Group for Lean Construction , (IGLC-15),
          Lansing, Michigan, International Advisory Board Member. Organized by
          the International Group for Lean Construction (IGLC). Click here to get to the official
          conference website at Michigan State University. 2006 14th Annual Conference
          of the International Group for Lean Construction , (IGLC-14),
          Santiago, Chile, International Advisory Board Member. Organized by
          the International Group for Lean Construction (IGLC). Click here to get to the official conference
          website in Chile. 2005 Construction
          Research Congress 2005 ,
          Ken Walsh (Chair) and Iris Tommelein (Technical Chair). Organized by
          the ASCE. 13th Annual Conference
          of the International Group for Lean Construction , (IGLC-13),
          Brazil, International Advisory Board Member. Organized by the
          International Group for Lean Construction (IGLC). 2004 12th Annual Conference of the
          International Group for Lean Construction , (IGLC-12),
          Denmark, International Advisory Board Member. Organized by the
          International Group for Lean Construction (IGLC). 2003 11th Annual Conference of
          the International Group for Lean Construction , (IGLC-11),
          Blacksburgh, VA, International Advisory Board Member. Organized by
          the International Group for Lean Construction (IGLC). 2002 3rd
          International Conference on Concurrent Engineering in Construction (CEC02), here, in Berkeley, this summer from 1-3 July 2002. 10th Annual
          Conference of the International Group for Lean Construction ,
          (IGLC-10), August 6-8, 2002, Gramado-RS, Brazil, International
          Advisory Board Member. Organized by the International Group for Lean
          Construction (IGLC). ISARC 2002: 19th International
          Symposium on Automation and Robotics in Construction , 23-25
          September 2002, Washington, D.C., organized by NIST. 2001 9th Annual Conference of
          the International Group for Lean Construction , (IGLC-9), Singapore,
          International Advisory Board Member. Organized by the International
          Group for Lean Construction (IGLC). Sixth International
          Conference on the Application of Artificial Intelligence to Civil and
          Structural Engineering AND Eigth International Conference on Civil and Structural
          Engineering Computing , Eisenstand-Vienna, Austria, 19-21
          September 2001, Editorial Board Member. 2000 8th
          Annual Conference of the International Group for Lean Construction (IGLC-8), July 17-19, 2000, Brighton, U.K., Advisory Board Member.
          Organized by the International Group for Lean Construction (IGLC). 8th International
          Conference of Computing in Civil and Building Engineering , VIII-ICCCBE, August
          14-17, 2000, Stanford University, CA, USA. ISARC 2000 , 17th
          International Symposium on Automation and Robotics in Construction ,
          September 18-20, 2000 in Taipei, Taiwan, Member of International
          Program Committee. Organized by the International Association for
          Automation and Robotics in Construction (IAARC). 1999 7th
          Annual Conference of the International Group for Lean Construction (IGLC-7), July 26-27-28, 1999, Berkeley, California. Conference
          Organized by Iris Tommelein jointly with Glenn Ballard. Members of
          the International Group for Lean
          Construction held their annual business meeting on July 28. The
          conference proceedings are posted in electronic format on our conference
          web site . NSF Sponsored Research
          Workshop "Berkeley-Stanford CE&M Workshop: Defining a
          Research Agenda for AEC Process/Product Development in 2000 and
          Beyond." Organized by Professor Iris Tommelein jointly with
          Professor Martin Fischer from Stanford University. Please visit the
          workshop web site for more details: http://faculty.ce.berkeley.edu/tommelein/CEMworkshop.htm . Education PhD, Civil Engineering (Construction Engineering
         and Management), Stanford
         University , 1989 M.S., Computer Science (Artificial Intelligence), Stanford University ,
         1989 M.S., Civil Engineering (Construction Engineering
         and Management), Stanford
         University , 1985 Civil Engineer-Architect (5 year degree), Free University Brussels (Vrije
         Universiteit Brussel) , Brussels , Belgium , 1984 Links | Prof. Iris D. Tommelein | Project Production Systems Laboratory
    (P2SL) | Engineering
    and Project Management (E&PM) Program | Civil & Environmental Engineering
    Department | U.C. Berkeley | E&PM Program / IDT / 3 DEC 2015

