Name: Professor Doug Tygar

Description: Doug Tygar is Professor of Computer Science at UC Berkeley and also a Professor of Information Management at UC Berkeley. He works in the areas of computer security, privacy, and electronic commerce. His current research includes privacy, security issues in sensor webs, digital rights management, and usable computer security. His awards include a National Science Foundation Presidential Young Investigator Award, an Okawa Foundation Fellowship, a teaching award from Carnegie Mellon, and invited keynote addresses at PODC, PODS, VLDB, and many other conferences.Doug Tygar has written three books; his bookSecure Broadcast Communication in Wired and Wireless Networks(with Adrian Perrig) is a standard reference and has been translated to Japanese. He designed cryptographic postage standards for the US Postal Service and has helped build a number of security and electronic commerce systems including: Strongbox, Dyad, Netbill, and Micro-Tesla. He served as chair of the Defense Department’s ISAT Study Group on Security with Privacy, and was a founding board member of ACM’s Special Interest Group on Electronic Commerce. He helped create and remains an active member of TRUST (Team for Research in Ubiquitous Security Technologies). TRUST is a new National Science Foundation Science and Technology Center with headquarters at UC Berkeley and involving faculty from Berkeley, Carnegie Mellon, Cornell, Stanford, and Vanderbilt.Before coming to UC Berkeley, Dr. Tygar was tenured faculty at Carnegie Mellon’s Computer Science Department, where he continues to hold an Adjunct Professor position. He received his doctorate from Harvard and his undergraduate degree from Berkeley.

Title: Professor

Website: http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/~tygar

Email: doug.tygar@gmail.com

Phone: (510) 643-7855

Address: University of California, Berkeley
102 South Hall
Berkeley, CA 94720 - 4600

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-doug-tygar/

Personal Website Text Short: Doug Tygar's Home Page Doug Tygar Biography Contact Publications Doug Tygar Professor of Computer 
Science , UC Berkeley Professor of Information Management , UC 
				Berkeley Research interests :  
Privacy, computer security, electronic commerce E-mail: doug.tygar [at] gmail.com Office phone: 510-643-7855 Fax: 815-301-5497 CS Office: 739 Soda Hall (I 
	usually hold meetings in this office) Assistant: Barbara Goto, 510-643-2614, 
	741 
    South Hall Postal Mail: Prof. Doug Tygar UC Berkeley - Computer 
	Science Division 739 Soda Hall 
	#1776 Berkeley, CA  
	94720-4600  USA © Doug 
Tygar (web updated 30 June 2013 )

