Name: Professor Michael Franklin

Description: MICHAEL J FRANKLIN is the Thomas M. Siebel Professor of Computer Science at the University of California, Berkeley. He has over 30 years of experience in the database, data analytics, and data management fields as an academic and industrial researcher, teacher, lab director, faculty member, entrepreneur, and software developer. Prof. Franklin is also the Director of the Algorithms, Machines, and People Laboratory (AMPLab) at UC Berkeley, a leading academic Big Data analytics research center. The AMPLab has 27 industrial partners including founding sponsors Amazon Web Services, Google, IBM, and SAP, and received a National Science Foundation CISE “Expeditions in Computing” award, which was announced as part of the White House Big Data Research initiative in March 2012. AMPLab has produced industry-changing open source software including Apache Spark and BDAS, the Berkeley Data Analytics Stack. Prof. Franklin is a co-PI and Executive Committee member for the Berkeley Institute of Data Science, a campus-wide initiative to advance Data Science Environments. He was founder and CTO of Truviso, a data analytics company that was subsequently purchased by Cisco Systems. He currently serves on the Technical Advisory Boards of a number of data-driven technology companies, including Databricks, an AMPLab spinout. He is a Fellow of the ACM and a two-time winner of the ACM SIGMOD “Test of Time” award, and received the outstanding Advisor Award from the Computer Science Graduate Student Association at Berkeley. He received the Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Wisconsin in 1993, a Master of Software Engineering from the Wang Institute of Graduate Studies in 1986, and the B.S. in Computer and Information Science from the University of Massachusetts in 1983.

Title: Professor

Website: https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~franklin/

Email: franklin@cs.berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 642-1662

Address: University of California, Berkeley
465 Soda Hall #1776 
Berkeley, Ca 94720-1776

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-michael-franklin/

Personal Website Text Short: Resource not found | EECS UC Berkeley Skip to Content Expand Search Form Collapse Search Form Expand Main Menu Collapse Main Menu Search for: Search For Students For Faculty/Staff Industry News Events Give Search for: Search About About Expand Submenu About About Overview History Expand Submenu The First Women of EECS Joseph Thomas Gier Diversity Expand Submenu Hear From Women in EECS Broadening Participation in EECS Visiting By the Numbers Special Events Expand Submenu 2022-23 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 The Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) at UC Berkeley offers one of the strongest research and instructional programs in this field anywhere in the world. Blog Academics Academics Expand Submenu Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Admissions & Programs Expand Submenu CS Major EECS Major EECS/CS Program Comparison Chart Second Bachelor's Degree Summer Research Cal Day Graduate Admissions & Programs Expand Submenu Grad Admissions FAQ Industry-Oriented Programs Research-Oriented Programs Fellowships Adding the EECS/CS M.S. From Another Department Recommended Coursework For Current Students Expand Submenu ed | EECS 101 Courses Expand Submenu EE Courses CS Courses Unlike many institutions of similar stature, regular EE and CS faculty teach the vast majority of our courses, and the most exceptional teachers are often also the most exceptional researchers. View Courses Research Research Expand Submenu Research Research Overview Areas Centers & Labs Colloquium Expand Submenu Archive BEARS Symposium Expand Submenu Archive Technical Reports Ph.D. Dissertations Research is the foundation of Berkeley EECS. Faculty, students, and staff work together on cutting-edge projects that cross disciplinary boundaries to improve everyday life and make a difference. EECS Research People People Expand Submenu People People Overview Directory Leadership Faculty Expand Submenu In Memoriam Students Expand Submenu Student Awards Student Organizations Staff Expand Submenu Student Affairs Faculty  Support Course Support Facilities and Engineering Services Financial Services HR IT Support Industrial & Public Relations Alumni Expand Submenu EE Distinguished Alumni CS Distinguished Alumni EECS faculty, students, staff, and alumni are central to our success as one of the most thriving and distinguished departments on the Berkeley campus. Latest News Connect Connect Expand Submenu Connect Connect Overview Support EECS Expand Submenu EECS Excellence Fund Memorial Funds K-12 Outreach Student Affairs Faculty Positions Staff Positions Contact Expand Submenu In an Emergency Consider reaching out for a conversation, attending a department seminar or conference, viewing a lecture on any one of our public channels, or supporting us via a gift to the university. You can help strengthen our dedication to education and outreach, solidify close ties to industry, and nourish a supportive and inclusive culture. Contact us Resource not found The server has encountered a problem because the resource was not found. Your request was : https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~franklin/ What are you looking for? Graduate Programs and Admissions .  There's also a Graduate Admissions FAQ for answers to specific questions. Undergraduate Programs and Admissions Recruiting EECS students and posting jobs EECS Departmental Computer or Network Support People and Directories About History Diversity Visiting Special Events People Directory Leadership Faculty Staff Students Alumni Connect Support Us K-12 Outreach Faculty Positions Staff Positions Contact Academics Undergrad Admissions & Programs Graduate Admissions & Programs Courses Prospective Women Students Current Students Resources Room Reservations My EECS Info For Students For Grads For Undergrads For ASEs IT Services Facilities/Safety For Faculty/Staff Visiting Scholars Research Areas Centers & Labs Projects Technical Reports PhD Dissertations Joint Colloquium BEARS Symposium Industry Recruit Students Corporate Access Learn more about the Campaign for Berkeley and Graduate Fellowships. Give to EECS Berkeley EECS on Twitter Berkeley EECS on Instagram Berkeley EECS on LinkedIn Berkeley EECS on YouTube EE CS UC Berkeley Berkeley Engineering CDSS Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy Contact © 2023 UC Regents

