Name: Professor Ajujan Varma

Description: Anujan Varma is a Professor and Graduate Director in the Computer Engineering Department at UCSC. He holds a Masters in Computer Science from the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore and a Ph.D. in Computer Engineering from University of Southern California. He was previously employed at the IBM Thomas J. Watson Research Center from 1986 to 1991.Professor Varma has worked on the architecture design and implementation of a variety of switches, including IP routers, ATM switches, Ethernet switches and SAN switches. His current research interests include high-speed switching and routing, optical networks, traffic scheduling and congestion control. He has published more than 100 papers in these areas and holds ten U.S. patents with more than 20 applications pending.Prof. Varma has received several awards including the NSF Young Investigator Award, the IEEE Darlington Award for the best paper published in IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems during 1990-’91, and a Teaching Innovation Award from the University of California. He has served on the program committees of several conferences including ACM SIGCOMM and IEEE INFOCOM.Prof. Varma’s research has received research funding from DARPA, NSF, Department of Energy and several companies. His research has had a significant impact on the networking industry. His work on the SWANET (Self-routed Wavelength-Addressable NETwork) project (a collaborative project with Stanford University and University of California, Berkeley) led to the successful demonstration of a wavelength-routed optical switch. The resulting patent has been licensed by leading companies. His research in traffic scheduling and ATM congestion control have also led to influential products. He co-invented Starting Potential-based Fair Queueing (SPFQ), a key scheduling algorithm used by Lucent Technologies (now Agere Systems) in their popular ATLANTA switch fabric chipset. He is also the co-inventor of a rate allocation algorithm for supporting Available Bit-Rate (ABR) service in ATM switches, that has been licensed by ATM switch vendors. Dr. Varma has consulted extensively for the networking industry, including Lucent technologies, Cisco Systems, Intel, Broadcom and Bay Networks.During 2000-2002, Dr. Varma founded TeraOptic Networks, a fabless semiconductor company, with funding from Sequoia Capital and Redpoint Ventures. There he led the architecture design and implementation of a terabit-scale switch fabric chipset for high-end routers and switches. In 2002 the company successfully demonstrated a 640 Gb/s system based on its first-generation switch fabric chipset. The company’s intellectual property was later acquired by Intel Corporation. The company also received a “Fabless Start-up of the Year” Award from the Fabless Semiconductor Association in 2001.

Title: Professor

Website: http://www.soe.ucsc.edu/~varma/

Email: varma@soe.ucsc.edu

Phone: (831) 459-3505

Address: University of California, Santa Cruz
1156 High St
Mail Stop SOE3
Santa Cruz, CA 95064

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-ajujan-varma/

Personal Website Text Short: Baskin School of Engineering – Baskin Engineering provides unique educational opportunities, world-class research with an eye to social responsibility and diversity. Skip to content ucsc.edu BE News Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Undergraduate Students Undergraduate Student Newsletter Current Graduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Graduate Student Newsletter Student Organizations Student Employment Staff & Faculty Menu About BE History BE Leadership Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Degree Programs Apply Departments Applied Mathematics Biomolecular Engineering Computational Media Computer Science and Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Statistics Engineering Management Programs Research People Engage Give BE News For Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Undergraduate Students Undergraduate Student Newsletter Current Graduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Graduate Student Newsletter Student Organizations Student Employment Staff & Faculty Home »  Home Home Be bold Inspiring engineers to elevate the world through bold and socially responsible innovation Join Us Be boundless Inspiring engineers to elevate the world through bold and socially responsible innovation Join Us Be a Baskin Engineer Inspiring engineers to elevate the world through bold and socially responsible innovation Join Us #2 top public colleges for engineering salaries (Wall Street Journal, 2023) #2 public university for students focused on making an impact in the world (Princeton Review, 2022) #5 best game/simulation development program in the nation (U.S. News & World Report, 2024) ASEE Bronze-level recognition by the American Society for Engineering Education, Diversity Recognition Program (2023-2025) AAU UCSC joined just 65 other universities in the Association of American Universities in 2019 #4 for social mobility, acknowledging our commitment to enrolling and graduating low-income students (U.S. News & World Report, 2020) HSRU member of the Alliance of Hispanic Serving Research Universities #5 of the top 50 Institutions by Total Bachelors Degrees awarded in Computer Science in Engineering (ASEE, 2020) Overview A campus of exceptional beauty in coastal Santa Cruz is home to a community of people who are problem solvers by nature: Baskin Engineers. Founded in 1997 alongside the expanding internet, our school is uniquely positioned to address the challenges of the modern world. At the Baskin School of Engineering, faculty and students collaborate to create technology with a positive impact on society, in the dynamic atmosphere of a top-tier research university. Social Media View this profile on Instagram Baskin Engineering at UCSC (@ baskinengineering ) • Instagram photos and videos Follow us on Recent News Ukraine blackouts caused by malware attacks warn against evolving cybersecurity threats to the physical world In Memoriam: David Draper Stem cell study reveals distinct population of ‘troublemaker’ platelet cells that appear with aging and lead to blood clotting, disease Baskin Engineering will lead regional hub of NSF Engineering PLUS Alliance to serve underrepresented students, faculty, and staff Three UC Santa Cruz faculty members elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences See All News Upcoming Events Baskin Engineering Commencement, 2024 See All Events Welcome to Baskin Engineering An exciting academic life awaits you Join a vibrant community of students, faculty, and researchers committed to building a better future. With a focus on socially responsible innovation in areas such as health engineering, climate and sustainability, machine learning, artificial intelligence, games, and human computer interaction, there are endless possibilities to make a positive impact. We can’t wait to see what you will accomplish here. Inclusion at Baskin Engineering UC Santa Cruz and Baskin Engineering are committed to creating educational equity that will lead to real, transformative change. We are one of only two institutions in the nation that holds the honor of being a Hispanic Serving Institution, an Asian American Native American Pacific Islander Serving Institution, and member of the Association of American Universities. Read More Genomics for everyone UCSC researchers release the first human ‘pangenome,’ better representing our genetic diversity and setting the stage for new discoveries. Read More The Silicon Valley Campus A multi-disciplinary teaching and research hub Learn More Baskin School of Engineering 1156 High Street Santa Cruz, CA 95064 Online Store Contact Us Careers Make a Gift UC Santa Cruz | Privacy Policy/Terms of Use | ©2024 Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. © 2024 Baskin School of Engineering • Built with GeneratePress

