Name: Professor Eli Yablonovitch

Description: Eli Yablonovitch is the Director of the NSF Center for Energy Efficient Electronics Science (E3S), a multi-University Center headquartered at Berkeley. He received his Ph.D. degree in Applied Physics from Harvard University in 1972. He worked for two years at Bell Telephone Laboratories, and then became a professor of Applied Physics at Harvard. In 1979 he joined Exxon to do research on photovoltaic solar energy. Then in 1984, he joined Bell Communications Research, where he was a Distinguished Member of Staff, and also Director of Solid-State Physics Research. In 1992 he joined the University of California, Los Angeles, where he was the Northrop-Grumman Chair Professor of Electrical Engineering. Then in 2007 he became Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at UC Berkeley, where he holds the James & Katherine Lau Chair in Engineering.Prof. Yablonovitch is elected as a Member of the National Academy of Engineering, the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Inventors, the American Academy of Arts & Sciences, and is a Foreign Member of the Royal Society of London. He has been awarded the Edison Medal of the IEEE, the Isaac Newton Medal of the UK Institute of Physics, the Buckley Prize of the American Physical Society, the IEEE W.R. Cherry solar cell award, the Rank Prize (UK), the Harvey Prize (Israel), the IEEE Photonics Award, the IET Mountbatten Medal (UK), the Julius Springer Prize (Germany), the R.W. Wood Prize, the W. Streifer Scientific Achievement Award, and the Adolf Lomb Medal. He also has an honorary Ph.D. from the Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, & the Hong Kong Univ. of Science & Technology, and is honorary Professor at Nanjing University.Eli Yablonovitch introduced the idea that strained semiconductor lasers could have superior performance due to reduced valence band (hole) effective mass. With almost every human interaction with the internet, optical telecommunication occurs by strained semiconductor lasers.He is regarded as a Father of the Photonic BandGap concept, and he coined the term “Photonic Crystal”. The geometrical structure of the first experimentally realized Photonic bandgap, is sometimes called“Yablonovite”.In his photovoltaic research, Yablonovitch introduced the 4(n squared) (“Yablonovitch Limit”) light-trapping factor that is in worldwide use, for almost all commercial solar panels.His mantra that “a great solar cell also needs to be a great LED”, is the basis of the world record solar cells: single-junction 28.8% efficiency; dual-junction 31.5%; quadruple-junction 38.8% efficiency; all at 1 sun.His startup company Ethertronics Inc., has shipped over 1.7 billion cellphone antennas.He co-Founded Luxtera Inc., the originator and world leader of Silicon Photonics.

Title: Professor

Website: http://www.eecs.berkeley.edu/Faculty/Homepages/yablonovitch.html

Email: eliy@eecs.berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 642-6821

Address: University of California, Berkeley
267M Cory Hall #1770
Berkeley, CA 94720 - 1770

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-eli-yablonovitch/

Personal Website Text Short: Eli Yablonovitch | EECS at UC Berkeley Skip to Content Expand Search Form Collapse Search Form Expand Main Menu Collapse Main Menu Search for: Search For Students For Faculty/Staff Industry News Events Give Search for: Search About About Expand Submenu About About Overview History Expand Submenu The First Women of EECS Joseph Thomas Gier Diversity Expand Submenu Hear From Women in EECS Broadening Participation in EECS Visiting By the Numbers Special Events Expand Submenu 2022-23 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 The Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) at UC Berkeley offers one of the strongest research and instructional programs in this field anywhere in the world. Blog Academics Academics Expand Submenu Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Admissions & Programs Expand Submenu CS Major EECS Major EECS/CS Program Comparison Chart Second Bachelor's Degree Summer Research Cal Day Graduate Admissions & Programs Expand Submenu Grad Admissions FAQ Industry-Oriented Programs Research-Oriented Programs Fellowships Adding the EECS/CS M.S. From Another Department Recommended Coursework For Current Students Expand Submenu ed | EECS 101 Courses Expand Submenu EE Courses CS Courses Unlike many institutions of similar stature, regular EE and CS faculty teach the vast majority of our courses, and the most exceptional teachers are often also the most exceptional researchers. View Courses Research Research Expand Submenu Research Research Overview Areas Centers & Labs Colloquium Expand Submenu Archive BEARS Symposium Expand Submenu Archive Technical Reports Ph.D. Dissertations Research is the foundation of Berkeley EECS. Faculty, students, and staff work together on cutting-edge projects that cross disciplinary boundaries to improve everyday life and make a difference. EECS Research People People Expand Submenu People People Overview Directory Leadership Faculty Expand Submenu In Memoriam Students Expand Submenu Student Awards Student Organizations Staff Expand Submenu Student Affairs Faculty  Support Course Support Facilities and Engineering Services Financial Services HR IT Support Industrial & Public Relations Alumni Expand Submenu EE Distinguished Alumni CS Distinguished Alumni EECS faculty, students, staff, and alumni are central to our success as one of the most thriving and distinguished departments on the Berkeley campus. Latest News Connect Connect Expand Submenu Connect Connect Overview Support EECS Expand Submenu EECS Excellence Fund Memorial Funds K-12 Outreach Student Affairs Faculty Positions Staff Positions Contact Expand Submenu In an Emergency Consider reaching out for a conversation, attending a department seminar or conference, viewing a lecture on any one of our public channels, or supporting us via a gift to the university. You can help strengthen our dedication to education and outreach, solidify close ties to industry, and nourish a supportive and inclusive culture. Contact us Home / People / Faculty / Eli Yablonovitch Eli Yablonovitch Research Areas Physical Electronics (PHY) , Physics-Based Computing for Optimization & Deep Learning; Photonic Crystals at optical and microwave frequencies; Optical Antennas; and Solar Cells. Research Centers Center for Energy Efficient Electronics Science (E3S) Biography Eli Yablonovitch introduced the idea that strained semiconductor lasers could have superior performance due to reduced valence band (hole) effective mass. With almost every human interaction with the internet, optical telecommunication occurs by strained semiconductor lasers. He is regarded as a Father of the Photonic BandGap concept, and he coined the term "Photonic Crystal".  The geometrical structure of the first experimentally realized Photonic bandgap, is sometimes called “Yablonovite” . In his photovoltaic research, Yablonovitch introduced the 4(n squared) ( “Yablonovitch Limit” ) light-trapping factor that is in worldwide use, for almost all commercial solar panels. His mantra that "a great solar cell also needs to be a great LED”, is the basis of the world record solar cells:  single-junction 29.1% efficiency; dual-junction 31.5%; quadruple-junction 38.8% efficiency; all at 1 sun. His startup company Ethertronics Inc., shipped over 2 billion cellphone antennas. He co-Founded Luxtera Inc., the originator and world leader of Silicon Photonics, now acquired by Cisco Systems. There is a 2-dimensional Photonic Crystal, in every Luxtera Silicon Photonics chip, millions of which are in major data centers, used by billions all around the globe. Prof. Yablonovitch is elected as a Member of the National Academy of Engineering, the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Inventors, the American Academy of Arts & Sciences, and is a Foreign Member of the Royal Society of London.  He has been awarded the OSA Ives-Quinn Medal, the Benjamin Franklin Medal, the IEEE Edison Medal, the Isaac Newton Medal of the UK Institute of Physics, the Buckley Prize of the American Physical Society, the IEEE W.R. Cherry solar cell award, the Rank Prize (UK), the Harvey Prize (Israel), the IEEE Photonics Award, the IET Mountbatten Medal (UK), the Julius Springer Prize (Germany), the R.W. Wood Prize, the W. Streifer Scientific Achievement Award, and the Adolf Lomb Medal.  He also has an honorary Ph.D. from the Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, the Hong Kong Univ. of Science & Technology, & McGill Univ., and is honorary Professor at Nanjing University. Eli Yablonovitch is the Director Emeritus of the NSF Center for Energy Efficient Electronics Science (E 3 S), a multi-University Center headquartered at Berkeley. He received his Ph.D. degree in Applied Physics from Harvard University in 1972.  He worked for two years at Bell Telephone Laboratories, and then became a professor of Applied Physics at Harvard. In 1979 he joined Exxon to do research on photovoltaic solar energy. Then in 1984, he joined Bell Communications Research, where he was a Distinguished Member of Staff, and also Director of Solid-State Physics Research. In 1992 he joined the University of California, Los Angeles, where he was the Northrop-Grumman Chair Professor of Electrical Engineering. Then in 2007 he became Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at UC Berkeley, where he is the James & Katherine Lau Chair Emeritus in Engineering. Education 1972, Ph.D., Applied Physics, Harvard University 1969, A.M., Applied Physics, Harvard University 1967, B.Sc., Physics, McGill University Selected Publications H. Fang, C. Battaglia, C. Carraro, S. Nemsak, B. Ozdol, J. S. Kang, H. A. Bechtel, S. B. Desai, F. Kronast, A. A. Unal, G. Conti, C. Conlon, G. K. Palsson, M. C. Martin, A. M. Minor, C. S. Fadley, E. Yablonovitch, R. Maboudian, and A. Javey, " Strong interlayer coupling in van der Waals heterostructures built from single-layer chalcogenides ," Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , vol. 111, pp. 6198--6202, 2014. H. Fang, H. A. Bechtel, E. Plis, M. C. Martin, S. Krishna, E. Yablonovitch, and A. Javey, " Quantum of optical absorption in two-dimensional semiconductors ," Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , vol. 110, no. 29, pp. 11688--11691, 2013. E. Yablonovitch, O. Miller, and S. Kurtz, " Strong Internal and External Luminescence as Solar Cells Approach the Shockley–Queisser Limit ," IEEE Journal of Photovoltaics , vol. 2, no. 3, pp. 303-311, July 2012. M. Staffaroni, J. Conway, S. Vedantam, J. Tang, and E. Yablonovitch, " “Circuit Analysis in Metal-Optics”, ," Photonics and Nanostructures , vol. 10, no. 1, pp. 166–176, Jan. 2012. E. Yablonovitch, " Photonic Crystals: Semiconductors of Light ," Scientific American , vol. 285, no. 6, pp. 47-55, Dec. 2001. Awards, Memberships and Fellowships Frederic Ives Medal/Quinn Prize ,
                                                                                2019 Benjamin Franklin Medal in Electrical Engineering ,
                                                                                2018 IEEE Edison Medal ,
                                                                                2018 IEEE PVSC William R. Cherry Award ,
                                                                                2017 National Academy of Inventors (NAI) Fellow ,
                                                                                2017 Oliver E. Buckley Condensed Matter Prize ,
                                                                                2016 Isaac Newton Medal ,
                                                                                2015 Rank Prize in Optoelectronics ,
                                                                                2014 Foreign Member of the Royal Society ,
                                                                                2013 IEEE Photonics Award ,
                                                                                2012 American Academy of Arts and Sciences Member ,
                                                                                2011 Harvey Prize ,
                                                                                2011 Mountbatten Medal ,
                                                                                2010 National Academy of Engineering (NAE) Member ,
                                                                                2003 National Academy of Sciences (NAS) Member ,
                                                                                2003 Julius Springer Prize for Applied Physics ,
                                                                                2001 R. W. Wood Prize ,
                                                                                1996 IEEE Photonics Society William Streifer Scientific Achievement Award ,
                                                                                1993 Institute of Electrical & Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Fellow ,
                                                                                1992 American Physical Society (APS) Fellow ,
                                                                                1990 Optica Fellows (formerly Optical Society of America (OSA) Fellow) ,
                                                                                1982 Sloan Research Fellow ,
                                                                                1978 OSA Adolf Lomb Medal ,
                                                                                1978 Photo Larger Photo Links Personal Homepage Publications Dissertations Contact Information 267M Cory Hall tel: 642-6821 eliy@eecs.berkeley.edu Office Hours email in advance Research Support Stephanie Bratton sbratton@berkeley.edu About History Diversity Visiting Special Events People Directory Leadership Faculty Staff Students Alumni Connect Support Us K-12 Outreach Faculty Positions Staff Positions Contact Academics Undergrad Admissions & Programs Graduate Admissions & Programs Courses Prospective Women Students Current Students Resources Room Reservations My EECS Info For Students For Grads For Undergrads For ASEs IT Services Facilities/Safety For Faculty/Staff Visiting Scholars Research Areas Centers & Labs Projects Technical Reports PhD Dissertations Joint Colloquium BEARS Symposium Industry Recruit Students Corporate Access Learn more about the Campaign for Berkeley and Graduate Fellowships. Give to EECS Berkeley EECS on Twitter Berkeley EECS on Instagram Berkeley EECS on LinkedIn Berkeley EECS on YouTube EE CS UC Berkeley Berkeley Engineering CDSS Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy Contact © 2023 UC Regents

