Name: Professor Lee Schruben

Description: Professor Schruben is a Professor at the University of California, Berkeley and is considered one of the world’s foremost experts on simulation. His interests lie in optimization and design of experiments for complex systems, as well as optimization of hi-tech production and operations. In 2018, Professor Schruben received the Lifetime Professional Achievement Award (LPAA) by the Institute of Operations Research and the Management Sciences (INFORMS) Simulation Society, the highest honor given by the society. Professor Schruben was the selected recipient for the 2017 year for his discoveries in designs of simulation experiments, optimization of simulation system response, and foundations of simulation modeling.Professor Schruben has published dozens of papers on high speed simulation modeling, and invented a general paradigm for simulation modeling called ‘event graphs’ that enjoys widespread use throughout the simulation modeling community. He is regularly a keynote speaker at simulation conferences both in the U.S. and abroad. He was the youngest of the 13 people world-wide to be elected to the first class of Fellows in the Institute for Operations Research and Management Science and the only person to win the Institute’s Outstanding Publication award twice with single author papers.Professor Schruben also has an extensive history improving industrial operations, including research and consulting work with over a forty companies, many in the hi-tech biopharmaceutical and semiconductor manufacturing industries.Professor Schruben holds a Ph.D. in Operations Research in Statistics from Cornell University, a Master of Science in Statistics from the University of North Carolina and a Bachelor’s degree from Cornell University. He is also author of the simulation language ‘Sigma’, used for academic education and research as well as commercial high-speed simulation applications. Sigma was selected as one of the 101 all-time educational software success stories by Educom.

Title: Professor

Website: http://www.ieor.berkeley.edu/People/Faculty/schruben.htm

Email: LeeS@berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 642-1865

Address: University of California, Berkeley
4131 Etcheverry Hall 
Berkeley, CA 94720 - 1777

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-lee-schruben/

Personal Website Text Short: Page not found - UC Berkeley IEOR Department - Industrial Engineering & Operations Research Skip to content Menu About Department Why IEOR Message from the Chair Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Accreditation Contact Us About IEOR What is IEOR? Fields of Research Where Alumni Work Collaborate Donate Recruit Students Visiting Scholars Outreach Resources Directions Etcheverry Hall Safety & IT Resources Department Financial Resources Hubert Dreyfus Lending Library Jobs Research Overview Optimization & Algorithms Machine Learning & Data Science Stochastic Modeling & Simulation Robotics & Automation Supply Chain Systems Financial Systems Energy Systems Healthcare Systems Labs The far-reaching research done at Berkeley IEOR  has applications in many fields such as energy systems, healthcare, sustainability, innovation, robotics, advanced manufacturing, finance, computer science, data science, and other service systems. Faculty research in Berkeley IEOR specializes in stochastic processes, optimization, and supply chain management. Academics Undergraduate B.S. IEOR B.A. ORMS 5 Year: BS/MS IEOR B.S. M.E.T. Graduate Master of Analytics Master of Engineering Master of Science Doctorate General Courses Graduate Student Handbook Careers News News Alumni Magazine Department News IEOR Impact Sign Up for Our Newsletter For Press & Media Videos Follow us on Social Media Events Department Seminars Alumni Events People Faculty Staff Student Organizations Graduate Students Advisory Board Alumni With more than 4,000 alumni, 20 faculty, 20 advisory board members and 400 students, the IEOR department is a rapidly growing community equipped with tools and resources to make a large impact in industry, academia, and society. Learn more about our faculty’s research, student activities, alumni game-changers, and how Berkeley IEOR is designing a more efficient world. Berkeley Engineering | Alumni | Industry | Give IEOR - Designing a More Efficient World Menu Submit About Department Why IEOR Message from the Chair Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Accreditation Contact Us About IEOR What is IEOR? Fields of Research Where Alumni Work Collaborate Donate Recruit Students Visiting Scholars Outreach Resources Directions Etcheverry Hall Safety & IT Resources Department Financial Resources Hubert Dreyfus Lending Library Jobs Research Overview Optimization & Algorithms Machine Learning & Data Science Stochastic Modeling & Simulation Robotics & Automation Supply Chain Systems Financial Systems Energy Systems Healthcare Systems Labs The far-reaching research done at Berkeley IEOR  has applications in many fields such as energy systems, healthcare, sustainability, innovation, robotics, advanced manufacturing, finance, computer science, data science, and other service systems. Faculty research in Berkeley IEOR specializes in stochastic processes, optimization, and supply chain management. Academics Undergraduate B.S. IEOR B.A. ORMS 5 Year: BS/MS IEOR B.S. M.E.T. Graduate Master of Analytics Master of Engineering Master of Science Doctorate General Courses Graduate Student Handbook Careers News News Alumni Magazine Department News IEOR Impact Sign Up for Our Newsletter For Press & Media Videos Follow us on Social Media Events Department Seminars Alumni Events People Faculty Staff Student Organizations Graduate Students Advisory Board Alumni With more than 4,000 alumni, 20 faculty, 20 advisory board members and 400 students, the IEOR department is a rapidly growing community equipped with tools and resources to make a large impact in industry, academia, and society. Learn more about our faculty’s research, student activities, alumni game-changers, and how Berkeley IEOR is designing a more efficient world. Sorry! That page does not seem to exist. Directions 4141 Etcheverry Hall University of California Berkeley, California 94720-1777 Contact Us Graduate Student Services gradstudentservices-ieor@ berkeley.edu Graduate Admissions gradadmissions-ieor@ berkeley.edu Undergraduate Student Services ieor-student-services@berkeley.edu Public Affairs & Media Relations ieornewsletter@berkeley.edu gnegelev1@berkeley.edu Academics Bachelor's B.A. Operations Research & Management Science B.S. Industrial Engineering & Operations Research Management, Entrepreneurship & Technology Master's Master of Analytics Master of Engineering Master of Science Doctoral Ph.D. Industrial Engineering & Operations Research Explore About News Research Alumni Industry Jobs Give IEOR Magazine Sign Up For Our Newsletter Privacy | Nondiscrimination | Accessibility Copyright © 2024 UC Regents Scroll To Top

