Name: Qinghua Guo

Description: Professor Guo’s research includes the methodological and applied aspects of geographical information science. On methodological front, he mainly focus on:GeocomputationRemote sensing techniquesSpatial analysisOn the applied front, Professor Guo is interested in the application of geospatial techniques in solving large-scale ecological and geographical problems, with emphasis on the effects of invasive species, climate change, and human disturbance on terrestrial ecosystems.EducationPh.D., 2005 — University of California, BerkeleyM.S. 1999 — Peking University, ChinaB.S. 1996 — Peking University, China

Title: Assistant Professor

Website: http://faculty.ucmerced.edu/qguo/index.html

Email: qguo@ucmerced.edu

Phone: (209) 228-2911

Address: University of California, Merced 5200 North Lake Road Merced, CA 95343

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-qinghua-guo/

Personal Website Text Short: home What is New! Positions Available Graduate Assistants Undergraduate Assistants Media report Qinghua Guo Adjunct Professor School of Engineering , Sierra Nevada Research Institute , Environmental System Graduate Group University of California at Merced, 5200 North Lake Road, Merced, CA 95343 Phone: (209) 228-2911, Fax: (209) 228-4047 Email: qguo@ucmerced.edu Research Interests Geographic Information Science, Remote Sensing of Environment, Lidar, Geographical One-class Data, Climate Change and Terrestrial Ecosystem. Education Ph.D. 2005. Department of Environmental Science, Policy and Management, UC-Berkeley M.S. 1999. Institute of Remote Sensing and GIS, Peking University, China B.S. 1996. Department of Urban and Environmental Science, Peking University, China Appointments 2005 - present. Assistant Professor (founding faculty), Associate Professor, Full Professor, Adjunct Professor, School of Engineering, UC Merced Awards 2014 Erdas Award for Best Scientific Paper in Remote Sensing: American Society for Photogrammetry & Remote Sensing 2013 Second Honorable Mention recipients for the Talbert Abrams Award: American Society for Photogrammetry & Remote Sensing 2006 Faculty Development Award: UC Merced 2004 Student Honors Paper Competition (2nd place): Remote Sensing Specialty Group: 100th Annual Meeting of the Association of American Geographers 2002 Carolyn Meek Scholarship: UC Berkeley 1999 Jiu Ding-Xuan Scholarship: Peking Univ 1998 Outstanding Youth Scientist Award: Peking Univ. 1995 Excellent Academic Scholarship: Peking Univ 1993 Excellent Social Work Award: Peking Univ Professional Service Reviewer for journals and conferences Ecology Giscience and Remote Sensing PLOS ONE Remote Sensing of Environment Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Canadian Journal of Remote Sensing Computers and Geosciences International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health Data Knowledge and Engineering Ecography Ecological Informatics Forest Ecology and Management International Journal of Geographical Information Science International Journal of Remote Sensing International Journal of Wildland Fire ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing Journal of Environmental Quality Global Ecology and Biogeography IEEE World Congress on Computational Intelligence 2008 Journal of Spatial Hydrology Journal of Visual Languages and Computing Photogrammetric Engineering and Remote Sensing 6th California Oak Symposium ASPRS 2006 Annual Conference Acta Ecological Sinica Reviewer for agency Panelist for National Science Foundation (NSF) Panelist for National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) CalFed Bay-Delta Program France-Berkeley Fund Citizen Science Alliance State Key Lab of Remote Sensing Science (China)

