Name: Raissa D’Souza

Description: Raissa D’Souza is a Professor of Mechanical Engineering and of Computer Science at the University of California, Davis, as well as an External Professor at the Santa Fe Institute. Her research focuses on mathematical models of self-organization, phase transitions and the structure and function of networked systems. Her current interest is developing methods to enhance or delay the onset of phase transitions in random graphs as well as using random graphs to model statistical properties of interacting networks, such as congruence between social networks and technical artifacts in Open Source Software, the interplay of genetic-regulatory and protein-interaction networks in biological systems, and diffusion of ideas and viruses through distinct communities.Raissa received a PhD in Statistical Physics from MIT in 1999, was a Postdoc at Bell Labs and then a Postdoc in the Theory Group at Microsoft Research. Her research and publications span the fields of statistical physics, theoretical computer science and applied math. When she’s not pursuing research ideas, you will typically find her outside either scaling rocks or sailing.

Title: Professor

Website: http://mae.ucdavis.edu/dsouza/

Email: raissa@cse.ucdavis.edu

Phone: (530) 754-8405

Address: University of California, Davis 2095 Bainer/1101 MSB Davis, CA 95616

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-raissa-dsouza/

Personal Website Text Short: Raissa M. D'Souza | Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Skip to main content Menu Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Open Search Search Quick Links + Apply Directory Laboratory Safety Events Course Schedules Department Resources Maps and Directions College of Engineering Emergency Services Campus Map Course Catalog Schedule Builder COE Resources Intranet Department Opportunities MAE Teaching Faculty Resources Main navigation (extended config) About Letter from the Chair Advisory Board Directory Maps and Directions Commitment to Diversity Undergraduate Aerospace Engineering Areas of Interest in Aerospace Engineering Mechanical Engineering Areas of Interest in Mechanical Engineering Undergraduate Advising New Students - Aggie Advising Chevron Tutoring Center Student Organizations ABET MAE Course Schedule Enrollment Policies Graduate Doctoral Degree Master of Science Admissions Application Requirements Frequently Asked Questions Current Graduate Students Graduate Program Faculty Graduate Student Organization Graduate Contacts Graduate Courses Faculty & Research Design, Manufacturing, MEMS and Nanostructures Dynamics, Controls, Vehicles and Robotics Energy, Propulsion and Environment Fluid Mechanics and Aerodynamics Human-Systems Engineering Mechanics of Solids, Structures and Materials Research Centers and Laboratories News Give Raissa M. D'Souza Breadcrumb Home Directory Raissa M. D'Souza Position Title Associate Dean of Research and Professor Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Computer Science 530-754-8405 rmdsouza@ucdavis.edu Personal Site 1042 Kemper Hall Bio Network science, complex systems, statistical physics, applied mathematics D'Souza uses the tools of statistical physics and applied mathematics to develop mathematical models capturing the interplay between the structure and function of networks, including dynamical processes unfolding on networks. Her focus is on the abrupt onset of large-scale connectivity in networks, network synchronization behaviors and models of cascading failure. The general principles derived provide insights into the behaviors of real-world networks such as infrastructure networks and social networks, and opportunities to identify small interventions to control the self-organizing, collective behaviors displayed in these systems. She collaborates broadly with faculty within the college and in physics, statistics, political science and the Primate Center. Tags Graduate Program Faculty Dynamics, Controls, Vehicles and Robotics Content by Raissa M. D'Souza Raissa D’Souza joins Board of Reviewing Editors at Science September 10, 2020 Raissa D'Souza appointed lead editor of Physical Review Research July 01, 2019 Raissa D’Souza receives two honors from the Network Science Society June 18, 2019 Exotic Synchronization Patterns Emerge in a Simple Network March 07, 2019 University of California, Davis , One Shields Avenue, Davis, CA 95616 | 530-752-1011 Questions or comments? Privacy & Accessibility Principles of Community University of California Sitemap Last update: April 1, 2024 Copyright © The Regents of the University of California, Davis campus. All rights reserved. This site is officially grown in SiteFarm .

