Name: Rajeevan Amirtharajah

Description: Prof. Amirtharajah’s research activities focus on the development and implementation of electronic systems which are powered by energy harvested from their environment. This includes the conversion of incident light (solar energy harvesting) and environmental mechanical vibrations into electrical form, power electronics to generate stable supply voltages, and load circuits which consume less than one milliwatt. These systems form the foundation for self-powered wireless sensor networks which have applications in green building design, infrastructure and environmental monitoring, medicine, and defense.Recent projects include the development of disk-shaped piezoelectric transducers for vibration-to-electric energy conversion, highly efficient integrated rectifier designs for multiple electrode energy harvesters, self-timed circuits and embedded dynamic memory for time-varying power supplies, integrated solar cells, and energy scalable reconfigurable arays for sensor signal processing. We are initiating new projects exploring how novel devices such as silicon nanowires can be best exploited for low power digital and mixed-signal integrated circuits at the end of the CMOS roadmap. Possible applications of these emerging devices include sensing elements for biological and chemical agents, switches, current buffers, and interconnect for 3D integration.He received the National Science Foundation CAREER award in 2006. He is an inventor on over twenty United States patents and is a member of IEEE, AAAS, and Sigma Xi. In the 2012-2013 academic year, he was a visiting scholar at the Berkeley Wireless Research Center.

Title: Associate Professor

Website: https://faculty.engineering.ucdavis.edu/amirtharajah/biography/

Email: ramirtha@ece.ucdavis.edu

Phone: (530) 754-6562

Address: University of California, Davis Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering One Shields Avenue, Kemper Hall Davis, CA 95616

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/rajeevan-amirtharajah/

Personal Website Text Short: Biography – Amirtharajah, Rajeevan Amirtharajah, Rajeevan Menu Home Biography Publications Journals and Conferences Books and Book Chapters Patents Teaching Interests Undergraduate Graduate Research Interests Projects Lab Members Alumni Opportunities Biography Education Ph. D. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, 1999 M. Eng. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, 1994 B.S. in Electrical Science and Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, 1994 Professional Experience Professor, University of California, Davis, CA, 2015-Present Associate Professor, University of California, Davis, CA, 2008-2015 Assistant Professor, University of California, Davis, CA, 2003-2008 Independent Consultant, SMaL Camera Technologies, Cambridge, MA, 2003 Senior Member of Technical Staff, Intel, Hudson, MA, 2000-2002 Senior Member of Technical Staff, High Speed Solutions Corp., Hudson, MA, 1999-2000 IEEE Bio Rajeevan Amirtharajah received the S.B. and M.Eng. degrees in 1994, and the Ph.D. degree in 1999, all in electrical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA. His doctoral work developed micropower DSP systems which scavenge energy from mechanical vibrations in their environment and use that energy to process information provided by embedded and wearable sensors. From 1999 to 2002, as a senior member of the technical staff at High Speed Solutions Corp., Hudson, MA, later a subsidiary of Intel Corporation, he helped create innovative high performance multidrop bus technologies using electromagnetic coupling and pulse-based modulated signaling. He worked as an ASIC and mixed-signal circuit design consultant at SMaL Camera Technologies, Cambridge, MA, in 2003. In July 2003, he joined the Electrical and Computer Engineering department at the University of California, Davis, where he is currently a professor. His research interests include low power VLSI and sensor interface design for embedded systems, power electronics, powering systems from ambient energy sources, and high performance circuit and interconnect design. He received the National Science Foundation CAREER award in 2006. He is an inventor on over twenty United States patents and is a member of Sigma Xi, an IEEE Senior Member, and a AAAS Fellow. Facebook-f Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Flickr Privacy & Accessibility | Principles of Community | University of California

