Name: Ray Larson

Description: Dr. Larson specializes in information retrieval and database systems, with an emphasis on the system internals. He was involved in the design and development of UC public access online union catalog (MELVYL). He also helped design the algorithms used in the Inktomi web search engine. He is the principal designer of the Cheshire information retrieval system, and active in international IR evaluations including cross-language evaluations like CLEF and NTCIR.

Title: Professor

Website: http://www.ischool.berkeley.edu/people/faculty/raylarson

Email: ray@ischool.berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 642-6046

Address: University of California, Berkeley
207B South Hall
Berkeley, CA 94720

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/ray-larson/

Personal Website Text Short: Ray Larson | UC Berkeley School of Information Skip to main content Submit Log in UC Berkeley Give Volunteer Contact Us Alumni Alumni Get Involved & Give Back Sign Up to Volunteer Stay Connected I School Slack Alumni News Alumni Events Alumni Accounts Career Support Log in About About Academic Mission Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Resources DEIBJ Leadership History Featured Profiles Featured Faculty Featured Alumni South Hall Work at the I School Subscribe to Email Announcements Logos & Style Guide Directions & Parking Contact Us The School of Information is UC Berkeley’s newest professional school. Located in the center of campus, the I School is a graduate research and education community committed to expanding access to information and to improving its usability, reliability, and credibility while preserving security and privacy. Programs Programs MIMS Program Admissions Career Outcomes Degree Requirements Paths Through the MIMS Degree Final Project Funding Your Education Admissions Events Visit Us Request Information 5th Year MIDS Program Career Outcomes Capstone Project MIDS Program Admissions Jack Larson Data for Good Fellowship Tuition & Fees Capstone Project Women in MIDS MIDS Curriculum News Request Information MICS Program Admissions MICS Student News Tuition & Fees Capstone Project Request Information Ph.D. Program Admissions Career Outcomes Degree Requirements Funding Your Education Dissertations Admissions Events Request Information Graduate Certificates Applied Data Science Certificate ICTD Certificate Citizen Clinic The School of Information offers four degrees: The Master of Information Management and Systems (MIMS) program educates information professionals to provide leadership for an information-driven world. The Master of Information and Data Science (MIDS) is an online degree preparing data science professionals to solve real-world problems. The 5th Year MIDS program is a streamlined path to a MIDS degree for Cal undergraduates. The Master of Information and Cybersecurity (MICS) is an online degree preparing cybersecurity leaders for complex cybersecurity challenges. Our Ph.D. in Information Science is a research program for next-generation scholars of the information age. Courses Courses Information Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule Fall 2024 Course Schedule Data Science Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule Cybersecurity Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule The School of Information's courses bridge the disciplines of information and computer science, design, social sciences, management, law, and policy. We welcome interest in our graduate-level Information classes from current UC Berkeley graduate and undergraduate students and community members. More information about signing up for classes. People People ray Faculty Ladder & Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Emeriti Students MIMS Students MIDS Students 5th Year MIDS Students MICS Students Ph.D. Students Staff Visitors Research Research Publications Centers & Labs Research Areas Computer-mediated Communication Data Science Design Entrepreneurship Human-computer Interaction (HCI) Information Economics Information Organization Information Policy Information Retrieval & Search Information Visualization Law Privacy Security Social & Cultural Studies Technology for Developing Regions User Experience Research Research by faculty members and doctoral students keeps the I School on the vanguard of contemporary information needs and solutions. The I School is also home to several active centers and labs, including the Center for Long-Term Cybersecurity (CLTC) , the Center for Technology, Society & Policy , and the BioSENSE Lab . Careers Careers For Employers Why Hire I School? Events Request a Resume Book Leadership Development Program Mailing List For Nonprofit and Government Employers For Students & Alumni Events Resources Leadership Development Program Advising Jobscan & Applicant Tracking Systems Resume & LinkedIn Review Resume Book I School graduate students and alumni have expertise in data science, user experience design & research, product management, engineering, information policy, cybersecurity, and more — learn more about hiring I School students and alumni . News News Press Coverage Alumni News I School Voices Speakers Celebrate Moments of Persistence, Resilience, and Camaraderie at 2024 Commencement On May 18, 2024, the School of Information welcomed 423 of 670 total graduating students from the Master of... Commencement Speaker and Net Neutrality Champion Gigi Sohn Speaks on the Importance of Tech Advocacy Gigi Sohn gave the keynote speech at the UC Berkeley School of Information May 2024 Commencement. Awards Honor May 2024 Graduates The School of Information’s May 2024 Commencement presented an opportunity to honor faculty and student achievements... The I School Graduate Scholars Program in 2024 The initiative is now known at the I School as the I School Graduate Scholars (ISGS) program, which... Events Events Distinguished Lecture Series I School Lectures Information Access Seminars CLTC Events For the I School Community Alumni Events Women in MIDS Events School of Information May 2024 Commencement May 18, 2024, 2:00 pm Parler Games: Folklore, Social Media, and Insurrection Apr 24, 2024, 12:30 pm to 1:45 pm Misinformation In and About Science Feb 21, 2024, 12:10 pm to 1:30 pm Insight and Oversights: Shaping the Future of Visual Analytics with AI Jan 31, 2024, 12:10 pm to 1:30 pm Ray Larson Late Professor Emeritus ischool.berkeley.edu/people/faculty/raylarson Focus Information retrieval system design and evaluation Biography In memory of Ray Larson The School of Information is sad to announce that Ray Larson , long-time professor in the School of Information, passed away on June 17, 2017, following a struggle with cancer. Ray was a loyal friend and colleague, and a dedicated scholar, teacher, and mentor. We will miss him dearly. Dr. Larson specializes in information retrieval and database systems, with an emphasis on the system internals. He was involved in the design and development of UC public access online union catalog (MELVYL). He also helped design the algorithms used in the Inktomi web search engine. He is the principal designer of the Cheshire information retrieval system, and active in internation IR evaluations including cross-language evaluations like CLEF and NTCIR. Current Research My current research focuses on several related areas of information retrieval and digital libraries, including how to exploit XML structure and content in heterogeneous collections of XML documents, and how to use the evolving computational Grid/Cloud for IR and digital library applications. I am also investigating ways to use the metadata infrastructure of ontologies (thesauri), electronic gazetteers, time period directories and biographical references to provide enhanced access to a variety of information resources and to generate dynamic portals to related information for a searcher's area of interest. In addition I am working on methods for effective geographic information retrieval (IR that uses a geographic dimension) and geotemporal (search taking into account both geographic and time constraints) in a multilingual environment. Other Research I am one of the track coordinators for the GeoCLEF track of the Cross-Language Evaluation Forum (CLEF) and for the Heterogeneous Track of the Initiative for the Evaluation of XML Retrieval (INEX). Education B.A., English and Comparative Literature, California State University, Fullerton, 1976 M.S.L.S., Library Science, California State University, Fullerton, 1976 Certificate: Library Automation and Information Science, UC Berkeley, 1979 Ph.D., Library and Information Studies, UC Berkeley, 1986 What is the best thing about working at the I School? Working with incredibly gifted and interesting students. What Information issues interests you most? How to integrate the vast resources of the "dark web" -- all of the databases that underlie the search pages on thousands or millions of web sites, and still make the results usable and comprehensible to users. People ray Faculty Students Staff Visitors Recent courses taught Spring 2016 Info 296A. Information Access Seminar Fall 2015 Info 257. Database Management Info 296A. Information Access Seminar Spring 2015 Info 296A. Information Access Seminar Fall 2014 Info 257. Database Management Info 296A. Information Access Seminar Summer 2014 Data Science 205. Fundamentals of Data Engineering Data Science 205. Fundamentals of Data Engineering 1 of 9 next › Recent publications 2007 Building and Sustaining the Digital Environment: JCDL 2007 : Proceedings of the 7th ACM/IEEE Joint Conference on Digital Libraries 2006 Indexing and Searching Tera-Scale Grid-Based Digital Libraries Time Period Directories: A Metadata Infrastructure for placing Events in Temporal and Geographic Context Grid-based Digital Libraries and Cheshire3 Probabilistic Retrieval, Component Fusion, and Blind Feedback for XML Retrieval Last updated: May 23, 2024 Sign up for more information Find us on Facebook Find us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Connect on Linkedin Watch us on YouTube View Flickr Photos Read our Medium Publication Copyright 1995–2024 UC Regents Nondiscrimination | Accessibility | Privacy UC Berkeley Give Volunteer Contact Us Alumni Log in About Academic Mission Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Resources DEIBJ Leadership History Featured Profiles Featured Faculty Featured Alumni South Hall Work at the I School Subscribe to Email Announcements Logos & Style Guide Directions & Parking Contact Us Programs MIMS Program Admissions Career Outcomes Degree Requirements Paths Through the MIMS Degree Final Project Funding Your Education Admissions Events Visit Us Request Information 5th Year MIDS Program Career Outcomes Capstone Project MIDS Program Admissions Jack Larson Data for Good Fellowship Tuition & Fees Capstone Project Women in MIDS MIDS Curriculum News Request Information MICS Program Admissions MICS Student News Tuition & Fees Capstone Project Request Information Ph.D. Program Admissions Career Outcomes Degree Requirements Funding Your Education Dissertations Admissions Events Request Information Graduate Certificates Applied Data Science Certificate ICTD Certificate Citizen Clinic Application Courses Information Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule Fall 2024 Course Schedule Data Science Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule Cybersecurity Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule People ray Faculty Ladder & Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Emeriti Students MIMS Students MIDS Students 5th Year MIDS Students MICS Students Ph.D. Students Staff Visitors Research Publications Centers & Labs Research Areas Computer-mediated Communication Data Science Design Entrepreneurship Human-computer Interaction (HCI) Information Economics Information Organization Information Policy Information Retrieval & Search Information Visualization Law Privacy Security Social & Cultural Studies Technology for Developing Regions User Experience Research Careers For Employers Why Hire I School? Events Request a Resume Book For Nonprofit and Government Employers Leadership Development Program Mailing List For Students & Alumni Events Resources Leadership Development Program Advising Jobscan & Applicant Tracking Systems Resume & LinkedIn Review Resume Book News Press Coverage Alumni News I School Voices Events Distinguished Lecture Series I School Lectures Information Access Seminars CLTC Events For the I School Community Alumni Events Women in MIDS Events

