Name: Rebecca Hernandez

Description: Rebecca R. Hernandez is an associate professor in the Department of Land, Air and Water Resources at the University of California, Davis; director of theGlobal Ecology and Sustainability Lab; and co-founder and co-director of theWild Energy Initiativeat the John Muir Institute of the Environment. Her research focuses on three related themes: 1) global environmental change, using drylands as model systems; 2) ecological aspects of energy development; and 3) sustainable outcomes of land use, human development and decision-making. Hernandez’s methodologies include traditional ecological field work, the use and development of environmental sensors, and systematic review, meta-analysis, surveys, geographic technologies, and other data-intensive methods used in socio-ecological science.RebeccaHernandez earned her Ph.D. in earth system science from Stanford University. Her research expertise is in understanding environmental and sustainability outcomes of energy systems. Her work has been featured in Nature Climate Change, Nature Sustainability, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, Environmental Science & Technology, and Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews. Her research has been featured on TV, radio and print in Bloomberg Business, National Geographic, NPR, PBS, Scientific American and the Washington Post, among over one hundred other news outlets.Research interests:energy, environment, ecology, solar energy, sustainability.

Title: Associate Professor of Land, Air and Water Resources

Website: https://wildenergy.org/

Email: rrhernandez@ucdavis.edu

Phone: nan

Address: University of California, Davis

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/rebecca-hernandez/

Personal Website Text Short: Wild Energy | Energy Solutions for Wildlife & Sustainability Research News & Media About Us Projects Publications Join Us Back Projects Overview Empowering Birds Flower Power Pond Power Research News & Media About Us Projects Projects Overview Empowering Birds Flower Power Pond Power Publications Join Us Scroll wild energy center at uC Davis Where energy, life, and the environment work together our mission Meeting goals for renewable energy in ways that are beneficial to people, ecosystems, and the species on which our resilience depends. The Wild Energy Center facilitates premier scientific research, education, and outreach on interactions between energy development and Earth’s systems. about us Explore our research Meet Our Team Discover Our Projects featured project Wild seeds for ground-mounted solar arrays In partnership with the Sacramento Municipal Utilities District and the Electric Power Research Institute, Wild Energy affiliate scientist, Yudi Li, is seeding the future of solar energy. Li envisions a new landscape supporting flowers and power. This is the Restorative Energy Project . Discover our projects Latest News & Media News & Media Mar 8, 2024 New study in Nature Climate Change - Mapping the Sweet Spot for Renewables and Shifting Species’ Ranges Mar 8, 2024 Read More → Mar 8, 2024 Feb 11, 2024 Michael Levin and colleagues’ study featured in the New York Times. Feb 11, 2024 Read More → Feb 11, 2024 Aug 24, 2023 Prof. Hernandez and multi-sector UC Wild Solar Team win $2 million dollar grant! Aug 24, 2023 Read More → Aug 24, 2023 featured project Pond Power Solar energy is being deployed on water bodies across the globe. We study characteristics above and below the water to reveal how the presence of floating photovoltaic solar energy infrastructure can alter water properties in ways that may benefit humans and wildlife. Discover our projects Our work has been featured in why this work matters Clean energy shouldn’t carry a huge ecological cost Earth now faces a “twin crisis” that threatens all of its inhabitants: climate change and biodiversity loss. Energy and similar extractive economies have led us here. Wild Energy scientists are reinventing Earth’s relationship with energy. We identify solutions and development options to achieve an energy future characterized by sustainability and justice. We include all voices at the interface of environment and society, including native and indigenous communities, government agencies, nonprofit organizations, industry leaders, and more. Join the Center H - Hero Banner H - Mission and vision New Gallery H - Project feature H - News & Updates H - Featured Project [Full] H - Partners [gold] H - Why this work matters Contact Info Wild Energy Director : Prof. Rebecca R. Hernandez Contact : rrhernandez@ucdavis.edu Office : PES 3142 Wild Energy Laboratory : PES 2111 Wild Energy Team Office : PES 3150 Mailing Address: Wild Energy Center 1110 Plant and Environmental Sciences Building Dept. of Land, Air, and Water Resources One Shields Avenue Davis, CA 95616-8627 Quick links Home research about us Latest News publications join US © Rebecca R. Hernandez - Wild Energy Center at UC Davis - 2024 Designed by Impact Media Lab

