Name: Richard White

Description: Professor Richard White is a professor emeritus in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences and a Co-Founding Director of the Berkeley Sensor & Actuator Center.Professor White’s research interests include wireless microsensors, energy scavenging devices for use in electric power systems, and portable particulate matter monitors for measuring concentrations of airborne aerosols and diesel exhaust particulates.Prior to joining the faculty at UC Berkeley, Professor White conducted microwave device research at General Electric. Professor White also holds numerous U.S. patents and has co-authored texts and reference books on Solar Cells (1983), Acoustic Wave Sensors (1997), and Electronics (2001). In addition to the 2003 Rayleigh Award of the IEEE for seminal contributions to surface acoustic wave technology, Professor White is a member of the National Academy of Engineering, a Fellow of the IEEE and the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and is the recipient of many academic awards including the IEEE Cledo Brunetti Award (1986), U.C. Berkeley Chancellor’s Professorship, and the 2003 U.C. Berkeley Community Service citation award. In 2013, Professor White was a co-recipient of the IEEE/RSE/Wolfson, James Clerk Maxwell Award with Professor Richard Muller.Professor White received his Ph.D. degree from Harvard University in Applied Physics in 1956.

Title: Professor Emeritus

Website: http://www.eecs.berkeley.edu/~rwhite/

Email: rwhite@eecs.berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 642-0540

Address: University of California, Berkeley 571 Cory Hall #1770 Berkeley, CA 94720 - 1770

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-richard-white/

Personal Website Text Short: Richard M. White Richard M. White Director, Berkeley Sensor and Actuator Center phD., Harvard University Department of Electrical Engineering
	 and Computer Sciences University of California at Berkeley Research Interests: Sensors; Ultrasonics; Solid-state devices; Instructional
	 Technology Dick White passed away August 2020.

