Name: Robert Full

Description: Robert Full completed his undergraduate studies at the State University of New York at Buffalo in 1979. He also did his graduate work at SUNY Buffalo, receiving a master’s degree in 1982 and a doctoral degree in 1984. He held a research and teaching post doctoral position at the University of Chicago from 1984–86 during which time he did research at Harvard University. In 1986 he joined the faculty of the University of California, Berkeley, as an assistant professor of zoology. He was promoted to associate professor of integrative biology in 1991, and to full professor of integrative biology in 1995, a position he holds today. In 1996 he was given a Distinguished Teaching Award. In 1997, Full became a Chancellor’s Professor and the director of a new biological visualization center. In 1998 Full received a Goldman Professorship for teaching.Professor Full directs the Poly-P.E.D.A.L. Laboratory which studies the performance, energetics and dynamics of animal locomotion in many-footed creatures. His research laboratory applies the same techniques used in the study of human gait — 3D kinematic, force platform and EMG analysis — but in miniature. His internationally recognized research program in comparative physiology and biomechanics has shown how examining a diversity of animals leads to the discovery of general principles of locomotion. General principles can then be used as hypotheses to explain the remarkable diversity in physiology and morphology in nature. His programmatic theme is “diversity enables discovery.” At the same time, discovering the function of simple, tractable neuromechanical systems along with a knowledge of evolution can provide new design ideas applicable to the control of animal and human gait. Recently, Full’s research has focused on the role of the mechanical system in self-stabilization.Full’s research also has provided biological inspiration for the design of multilegged robots and computer animations. His research interests extend from analyzing the pitching motion of a Hall of Fame pitcher to assisting computer animators in making children’s movies (Pixar/Disney A Bug’s Life). In 1990 Full received a National Science Foundation Presidential Young Investigators Award. In 1994 he presented his research at the Annual Meeting of the National Academy of Sciences. Full’s research has been featured in the popular press such as newspapers, various science magazines and on several television shows (CNN, NBC Today Show, ABC World News Tonight, Discovery Channel).

Title: Professor of Integrative Biology

Website: http://ib.berkeley.edu/people/faculty/fullr

Email: rjfull@berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 642-9896

Address: University of California, Berkeley 5128 Valley Life Sciences Building Berkeley, CA 94720-3140

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/robert-full/

Personal Website Text Short: Robert J. Full | Integrative Biology Skip to main content UC Berkeley College of Letters & Science Toggle navigation Academics People Research News and Events Support Services Equity and Inclusion About Give to IB Contact Integrative Biology Academics Undergrad Undergraduate Home Page What is Integrative Biology? Undergraduate Student Learning Initiative Major Requirements For New Freshmen For Transfer Students IB Major FAQs GPA Calculator Courses Course List Electives Enrichment Courses Study Abroad Pre-Approved Courses for IB Major Study in Norway Tutoring Resources Declaring IB Applications and Forms Advising Services IB Peer Advisors Undergrad Research Research FAQ IB Honors Careers in IB Leadership Opportunities DeCal Teaching and Tutoring Volunteering Department Awards Commencement & Graduation Grad Admissions Admissions Criteria Frequently Asked Questions Ph.D. Requirements Timeline Annual Reviews Teaching Requirements Qualifying Exam Dissertation Grad Div Requirements Good Standing Definition Funding & Financial Support University and Extramural TA (formerly GSI) GSR Other IB Support GRAC Research & Travel Funds Courses IB Graduate Courses Registration Advising Commencement & Graduation Our Community Agreement Alumni Profiles Courses People Directory Search Faculty Department Staff Graduate Students Lab Staff, Researchers, Others Lab Webpages Research Faculty Research Interests Faculty Research by Interest Research Facilites Instructional & Research Centers Museums and Collections Slideshow Gallery News and Events Department News Community News Insight Newsletter Seminar Calendar Seminar List Seminar Flyer Postcards from the Field 2021 Support Services Who to Contact Computer Support Course Scheduling Human Resouces/Payroll Instructional Support IB Instructional Support IB Remote Teaching Resources IB Teaching Lab Rooms Purchasing & Reimbursements Research Administration Scientific Facilities Storerooms VLSB VLSB Main Page About VLSB VLSB Building Policies VLSB Contact Information Reserving Space in VLSB Reserve VLSB Seminar Rooms Give Admin Feedback Equity and Inclusion Community Agreement Summer Undergraduate Research Experience (SURE) DEI Newsletter Archive Research Faculty Research Interests Robert J. Full Robert J. Full Professor Email: rjfull@berkeley.edu Phone: (510) 642-9896 Lab Webpage: http://polypedal.berkeley.edu Full Contact Information > Research Description My primary interests reside in the area of comparative biomechanics and physiology. My research program quantifies whole animal performance in general and locomotion in particular as it relates to an animal's structure, physiology, and behavior. We use biomechanical, computer simulation (dynamic musculo-skeletal modeling), physical modeling (robot and artificial muscle construction), isolated muscle, biochemical, whole-animal exercise physiology and field-tracking techniques to seek general design principles for species which have evolved different solutions to the problems of locomotion and activity in general. The study of arthropod, amphibian and reptilian locomotion continues to offer an excellent opportunity for comparison. Animals such as crabs, cockroaches, ants, beetles, scorpions, centipedes, geckos and salamanders show tremendous variation in body shape, gas transport system, leg number, musculoskeletal arrangement and mode of movement. Diversity enables discovery. We use these "novel" biological designs as natural experiments to probe for basic themes concerning the relationship between morphology, body size, energetics, dynamics, control, stability, maneuverability, maximum speed and endurance. An understanding of the diverse biological solutions to the problems of locomotion contributes to the development of a general theory of energetics, neuro-mechanics and behavior. We collaborate closely with engineers, mathematicians and computer scientists by providing biological principles to inspire the design of multi-legged robots, artificial limbs and muscles, novel control algorithms, and self-cleaning, dry adhesives. Selected Publications Libby, T., T. Moore, E. Chang-Siu, D. Li, D. Cohen, A. Jusufi and R. J. Full. 2012. Tail assisted pitch control in lizards, robots and dinosaurs. Nature . 481, 181–184. doi:10.1038/nature10710. Sponberg, S., A. Spence, C. Mullens, and R. J. Full. 2011. A single muscle's multifunctional control potential of body dynamics for postural control and running. Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B. 366, 1592-1605 doi:10.1098/rstb.2010.0367. Jusufi, A., Daniel I. Goldman, Shai Revzen, and Robert J. Full. 2008. Active tails enhance arboreal acrobatics in geckos. PNAS March 18, 2008 vol. 105 no. 11 4215–4219 Autumn, K., M. Sitti, Y.A. Liang, A.M. Peattie, W.R. Hansen, S. Sponberg, T. Kenny, R. Fearing, J.N. Israelachvili, and R.J. Full. 2002. Evidence for van der Waals adhesion in gecko setae. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 99 (19):12252-12256. Full, R.J., T. Kubow, J. Schmitt, P. Holmes, and D. Koditschek. 2002. Quantifying dynamic stability and maneuverability in legged locomotion. Int. & Comp. Biology 42:149-157. Altendorfer, A., N. Moore, H. Komsuoglu, M. Buehler, H.B. Brown Jr., D. McMordie, U. Saranli, R. Full, and D.E. Koditschek. 2002. RHex: A biologically inspired hexapod runner. Journal of Autonomous Robots 11:207-213. Full, R.J., and K. Meijer. 2001. Metrics of natural muscle. In Electro Active Polymers (EAP) as Artificial Muscles, Reality Potential and Challenges, ed. Y. Bar-Cohen, 67-83. SPIE & William Andrew/Noyes Publications. Dickinson, M.H., C.T. Farley, R.J. Full, M.A.R. Koehl, R. Kram, and S. Lehman. 2000. How animals move: An integrative view. Science 288:100-106. ©UC Regents ; all rights reserved Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Keep In Touch Subscribe to News Feed Subscribe to IB Newsletter Connect with Facebook Follow us on Twitter iCal Event Feed Contact Information Department of Integrative Biology University of California, Berkeley 3040 Valley Life Sciences Building # 3140 Berkeley, CA 94720-3140 More Contact Information

