Name: Ronnie Lipschutz

Description: Research InterestsProfessor Lipschutz’ research interests are rather diverse, but they tend to focus on the sources and processes of social change in contemporary political collectivities under conditions of what is often called “globalization.” Within this broad context, he is studying the constitution and fragmentation of old and new political units and movements (states, social movements, non-governmental organizations, civil society) in the areas of environment, security and identity (see the list of his recent publications). A key question of interest–albeit hardly a new one–is how to create non-aggressive collective political association and action when markets foster and privilege, individualism and atomization? More recently, his research has diverged into two directions: the public-private hybridization of the 21st century state, and the genealogies of capitalism, property and human rights.Biography, Education and TrainingRonnie D. Lipschutz is Professor of Politics at the University of California, Santa Cruz. During Fall term 2011, he is a Velux Visiting Professor in the Department of Business and Politics at the Copenhagen Business School. He was a visiting Professor of Politics and International Relations at Royal Holloway, University of London during 2009-10, and a Visiting Professor and Fellow in the Department of International Relations and Politics during 2002. Lipschutz received his Ph.D. in Energy and Resources from UC-Berkeley in 1987 and an SM in Physics from MIT in 1978. He has been a faculty member at UCSC since 1990.Lipschutz’s most recent books are Political Economy, Capitalism and Popular Culture (Rowman & Littlefield, 2010), The Constitution of Imperium (Paradigm, 2008) and Globalization, Governmentality and Global Politics: Regulation for the Rest of Us? (Routledge, 2005) as well as a text co-authored with Mary Ann Tétreault, Global Politics as if People Mattered (Rowman and Littlefield, 2009, 2nd ed.). He is editor of Civil Societies and Social Movements (Ashgate, 2006) and co-editor (with K. Ravi Raman) Corporate Social Responsibility: Comparative Critiques (Palgrave Macmillan, forthcoming 2010) and (with Gabriela Kütting) of Global Environmental Governance—Power and Knowledge in a Local-Global World (Routledge, 2009). He is also author of, among other volumes, Global Environmental Politics: Power, Perspectives and Practice (Washington, D.C.: CQ Press, 2004), After Authority—War, Peace and Global Politics in the 21st Century (Albany, N.Y.: State University of New York Press, 2000) Cold War Fantasies—Film, Fiction and Foreign Policy (Lanham, Md.: Rowman and Littlefield, 2001) and Global Civil Society and Global Environmental Politics (SUNY Press, 1996), and editor or co-editor of several other books.

Title: Professor

Website: http://politics.ucsc.edu/faculty/singleton.php?&singleton=true&cruz_id=rlipsch

Email: rlipsch@ucsc.edu

Phone: (831) 459-3125

Address: University of California, Santa Cruz 1156 High Street Santa Cruz, CA 95064

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-ronnie-lipschutz/

Personal Website Text Short: Campus Directory - UC Santa Cruz UC Santa Cruz MyUCSC People Calendars Maps A-Z Index Search Campus Directory About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life Visit UCSC Quick Start Guides Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Prospective Students Parents & Family Community Home » Find People » Campus Directory Search for people, departments, or email addresses. « Back To Search Results Ronnie D Lipschutz Ronnie Lipschutz Emeritus Professor of Politics 831-588-7625 831-459-3125 (Fax) rlipsch@ucsc.edu ronniedlipschutz@gmail.com Division Social Sciences Division Department/College/Unit Politics Department Title Emeritus Professor of Politics President & Co-director, Sustainable Systems Research Foundation Affiliation Faculty Faculty Type Emeriti Areas of Expertise Energy Environmental Policy Foreign Policy Globalization International and Global Affairs Politics Science and Technology Web Site Sustainable Systems Research Foundation Primary Office Location Remote work location 2861 Mission Street, Suite 247, Santa Cruz, CA 95064 Office Hours for Students/ Office Hours Please contact via email Mail Stop Merrill/Crown Faculty Services Biography, Education and Training Ronnie D. Lipschutz received his Ph.D. in Energy and Resources from UC-Berkeley in 1987 and an SM in Physics from MIT in 1978. He was a faculty member in the Politics Department from 1990-2020. He is now President and Co-director of the Sustainable Systems Research Foundation in Santa Cruz. From 2012-18, Lipschutz was Provost of Rachel Carson College at the University of California, Santa Cruz. During Fall term 2011, he was a Velux Visiting Professor in the Department of Business and Politics at the Copenhagen Business School. He was a visiting Professor of Politics and International Relations at Royal Holloway, University of London during 2009-10, and a Visiting Professor and Fellow in the Department of International Relations and Politics during 2002. Lipschutz's most recent books are Unhappy in Its Own Way: An Institutional Biography of UC Santa Cruz (2020; available in pdf at https://sustainablesystemsfoundation.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/Unhappy.pdf ) and, with Doreen Stabinsky, Environmental Politics for a Changing World (Lanham, Md.: Rowman & Littlefield, 2019). CV is available at https://sustainablesystemsfoundation.org/a-lipschutz-vita-20/ Research Interests Lipschutz has researched and written on a range of topics related to global political economy, including U.S. global economic and military policy and strategy, changing conceptions and practices of security, changing forms of war, global governance, global civil society and corporate social responsibility, environmental politics, energy and resources, sustainability, political economy and popular culture and the governmentality of biosurveillance.  At the Sustainable Systems Research Foundation, he is engaged in projects with local impact. Awards, Honors and Grants Inaugural holder of the Robert Headley Chair in Integral Ecology and Environmental Justice in Rachel Carson College (2017-19). Acquired an endowment for Rachel Carson College at UC-Santa Cruz from the Helen & Will Webster Foundation ($4,500,000) and a Presidential Chair ($1,000,000). During term of provost of College Eight/Rachel Carson College, raised over $200,000 from public and private sources in support of student education and projects. PI (with Sue Carter & Ali Adabi), NSF I-corps project, 2016-17 ($50,000). PI (with Regina Lanhout), STEM Success class project, 2017, UC Office of the President ($37,000). Selected Publications CV is available at https://sustainablesystemsfoundation.org/a-lipschutz-vita-20/ If you have the proper permissions, you can edit this entry This campus directory is the property of the University of California at Santa Cruz. To protect the privacy of individuals listed herein, in accordance with the State of California Information Practices Act, this directory may not be used, rented, distributed, or sold for commercial purposes. For more details, please see the university guidelines for assuring privacy of personal information in mailing lists and telephone directories. If you have any questions please contact the ITS Support Center . UC Santa Cruz, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, Ca 95064 ©2018 Regents of the University of California. All Rights Reserved. (1) Feedback Accreditation Non-Discrimination Policy Employment Privacy Policy & Terms of Use Sexual Violence Prevention & Response Last modified: July 30, 2018

