Name: Ross Boulanger

Description: Boulanger graduated with a Ph.D. and M.S. from the University of California, Berkeley and a B.A.Sc. from the University of British Columbia. Currently, Boulanger serves as the Director of the Center for Geotechnical Modeling, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at the University of California, Davis. He is a member of the National Academy of Engineering and was awarded the Ralph B. Peck Award by the American Society of Civil Engineers.Boulanger’s interests are mainly in geotechnical earthquake engineering with emphases on liquefaction and its remediation, seismic soil-pile-structure interaction, and seismic performance of earth dams and levees.

Title: Professor

Website: http://cee.engr.ucdavis.edu/faculty/boulanger/Default.htm

Email: rwboulanger@ucdavis.edu

Phone: (530) 752-2947

Address: University of California, Davis Dept. of Civil & Environmental Engineering One Shields Avenue Davis, CA 95616-5294

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-ross-boulanger/

Personal Website Text Short: Page not found | Civil and Environmental Engineering Skip to main content Menu Civil and Environmental Engineering Open Search Search Quick Links + Alumni Apply Safety Directory Department Resources Job Opportunities Campus Map College of Engineering Emergency Services Maps and Directions Schedule Builder About Mission Statement Department Advisory Board Vision History Committees Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Undergraduate Current Undergraduates Undergraduate Majors and Minors Civil Engineering Environmental Engineering Minors Undergraduate Advising Annual Mandatory Advising Course Planning Tools Student Resources Weekly Announcements Forms CEE Scholarships and Fellowships Scholarships 2020-2021 Enrollment Policies Beyond the Classroom Tutoring Services and Study Centers Student Organizations Internships and Careers Research Labs Study Abroad Washington Program ABET Civil Engineering ABET Accreditation Environmental Engineering ABET Accreditation Frequently Asked Questions Student Awards Prospective Undergraduates Graduate Current Graduates Degree Requirements PhD Program Special Courses Forms Student Funding Advising and Mentoring Program Teaching Assistants and Readers Weekly Announcements Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Other Resources Graduate Student Spotlight Newly Admitted Graduate Students New Student Information Course Registration Orientation 2023 Prospective Graduate Students Online Application Masters Degree Doctoral Degree Areas of Research Funding Opportunities Frequently Asked Questions Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Environmental Engineering Geotechnical Engineering Structural Engineering and Structural Mechanics Transportation Engineering Water Resources Engineering Research Centers Emeritus Directory News Give Contact Us Page not found Breadcrumb Home Page not found The requested page could not be found. University of California, Davis , One Shields Avenue, Davis, CA 95616 | 530-752-1011 Questions or comments? Privacy & Accessibility Principles of Community University of California Sitemap Last update: May 15, 2024 Copyright © The Regents of the University of California, Davis campus. All rights reserved. This site is officially grown in SiteFarm .

