Name: Roummel Marcia

Description: Research areas:Nonlinear nonconvex optimization, mathematical signal processing and compressive sampling, numerical linear algebra, and computational biochemistry.

Title: Associate Professor, Applied Mathematics

Website: http://faculty.ucmerced.edu/rmarcia/index.html

Email: rmarcia@ucmerced.edu

Phone: (209) 228-4874

Address: School of Natural Sciences
University of California, Merced
5200 North Lake Road
Merced, CA 95343

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/roummel-marcia/

Personal Website Text Short: Roummel F. Marcia | UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, MERCED Roummel F. Marcia Professor of Applied Mathematics Math Alliance Mentor School of Natural Sciences University of California, Merced Mailing address: School of Natural Sciences University of California, Merced 5200 North Lake Road Merced, CA 95343 Office: 363 ACS Bldg Email: . rmarcia @ ucm e rced.edu Phone: (209) 228-4874 Research areas: Nonlinear nonconvex optimization, signal processing, numerical linear algebra, mathematical biology, data science, and machine learning.  My research is currently supported by NSF Grants IIS 1741490 and DMS 1840265 . News and Announcements: 2024 April: Congratulations to Ph.D. student, Mohammed Aburidi , whose paper, "Optimal transport-based network alignment: Graph classification of small molecule structure-activity relationships in biology", has been accepted to the 46th Annual International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society . April: Congratulations to undergraduate student, Ronald Nap, and Ph.D. student, Mohammed Aburidi , whose paper, "Contrastive pre-training and multiple instance learning for predicting tumor microsatellite instability", has been accepted to the 46th Annual International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society . April: Congratulations to Ph.D. student, Jocelyn Ornelas-Muñoz, whose paper, "Sparse negative binomial signal recovery for genomic variant prediction in diploid species", has been accepted to the 46th Annual International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society .   Co-authored with Jocelyn's co-adsivor, Prof. Erica Rutter and with collaborators Prof. Mario Bañuelos (Fresno State) and Prof. Suzanne Sindi . April: Congratulations to Ph.D. student Kyle Wright, who is the recipient of a 2024-25 GSR fellowship from the F3 R&D GSR Program , funded by the US Dept. of Commerce, Economic Development Administration Build Back Better Regional Challenge.  Kyle is co-advised by Prof. Boaz Ilan and will be co-mentored by Prof. Teamrat Ghezzahai .  Kyle's project is on "Groundwater Modelling using Gravity Cartography." April: Congratulations to Ph.D. student Irabiel Romero Ruiz, who is the recipient of Graduate Division's 2023-24 Rose R. Ruiz Fellowship .  Irabiel is co-advised with Prof. Noemi Petra . April: Congratulations to undergraduate student, Ronald Nap, who is the recipient of the UC Merced School of Natural Sciences Outstanding Graduating Senior Award in Applied Mathematics for Spring 2024. April: Congratulations to Ph.D. student Jacky Alvarez, whose paper, "Overcoming data sparsity to enable deep learning  for radiographic non-destructive testing," has been accepted to the 2024 American Society for Nondestructive Testing Research Symposium: Beyond Boundaries .  Co-authored with Jacky's mentors and collaborators at LLNL: Keith Henderson , Maurice Aufderheide , Brian Gallagher , and Ming Jiang . March: Congratulations to Ph.D. student, Mohammed Aburidi , whose paper, "Topological adversarial attacks on graph neural networks via projected meta learning", has been accepted to the 2024 IEEE International Conference on Evolving and Adaptive Intelligent Systems . March: Congratulations to Ph.D. student, Jocelyn Ornelas-Muñoz, whose paper, "Decoder recovery in coded aperture imaging using convolutional neural networks" was accepted to the 2024 NIST/IEEE Conference on Computational Imaging Using Synthetic Apertures . Co-authored with Jocelyn's co-adsivor, Prof. Erica Rutter . March: Congratulations to Ph.D. student, Yu Lu, whose paper, "Alternating direction method of multipliers for negative binomial model with the weighted difference of anisotropic and isotropic total variation", has been accepted to the 2024 IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and Expo .  Co-authored with Dr. Kevin Bui . February: Congratulations to Ph.D. student, Mohammed Aburidi , whose paper, "Adversarial attack and training for graph convolutional networks using focal loss-projected momentum", has been accepted to the 3rd IEEE International Conference on Computing and Machine Intelligence (ICMI 2024) . January: Congratulations to Ph.D. student, Yu Lu, whose paper, "Sparse signal reconstruction  for overdispersed low-photon count biomedical imaging using ℓ p total variation", has been accepted to the 2024 IEEE International Symposium on Biomedical Imaging . 2023 December: The paper, " Shape-Changing Trust-Region Methods Using Multipoint Symmetric Secant Matrices ," has been accepted for publication in Optimization Methods and Software . Co-authored with Prof. Johannes Brust and Prof. Jennifer Erway . December: Congratulations to Ph.D. student, Jocelyn Ornelas-Muñoz, for successfullly passing her Qualifying Exam!  Jocelyn is co-advised by Prof. Erica Rutter .  Thanks to Prof. Chrysoula Tsogka ,
Dr. Omar DeGuchy from Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, and Dr. David Slater for MITRE for serving on Jocelyn's committee. December: Congratulations to Ph.D. student in Computer Science, Aditya Ranganath, for successfully defending his dissertation, "Optimization for machine learning: Memory-efficient and tractable solutions to large-scale non-convex systems."  Aditya is co-advised by Prof. Mukesh Singhal .  Thanks to Prof. Harish Bhat and Prof. Meng Tang for serving on Aditya's committee.  Congratulations, Dr. Ranganath! December: Congratulations to Ph.D. student, Mohammed Aburidi, whose paper, "Enhancing Drug Safety and Efficacy: Wasserstein Distance-Based Graph Kernel for Drug Property Prediction" was accepted to the 2024  IEEE International Conference on Artificial Intelligence for Medicine, Health, and Care . November: Congratulations to Ph.D. student, Kyle Wright, for successfullly passing his Qualifying Exam!  Kyle is co-advised by Prof. Boaz Ilan .  Thanks to Prof. Michael Scheibner of Physics for serving on his committee. November: Congratulations to Ph.D. student, Jocelyn Ornelas-Muñoz, who will receive the SandboxAQ Fellowship in Applied Mathematics for Spring 2024.  Jocelyn is co-advised by Prof. Erica Rutter . November: At UC Santa Cruz giving the Applied Math Colloquium .  Thanks, Associate Dean and Prof. Marcella Gomez , for the invitation! October: At ICIP 2023 , presenting a poster on contrastive learning and optimal transport . September: At Cat State Long Beach, giving the Mathematics Department Colloquium .  Thanks, Prof. Tianni Zhou for the invitation! September: Congratulations to Ph.D. student, Yu Lu, whose papers, "Overdispersed Photon-Limited Sparse Signal Recovery Using Nonconvex Regularization" and "Sparse Overdispersed Photon-Limited Signal Recovery With Upper and Lower Bounds" were accepted to the 2023 IEEE International Workshop on Computational Advances in Multi-Sensor Adaptive Processing . September: Congratulations to graduate student, Kyle Wright, whose paper, "Parameterized Inverse Eigenvalue Problems for Quantum Sensing" was accepted to the 2023 IEEE International Workshop on Computational Advances in Multi-Sensor Adaptive Processing . Co-authored with Kyle's co-adsivor, Prof. Boaz Ilan , and collaborator, Prof. Michael Scheibner . September: Congratulations to graduate student, Jocelyn Ornelas-Muñoz, whose paper, "Decoding the Hidden: Direct Image Classification Using Coded Aperture Imaging" was accepted to the 2023 IEEE International Workshop on Computational Advances in Multi-Sensor Adaptive Processing . Co-authored with Jocelyn's co-adsivor, Prof. Erica Rutter . September: Congratulations to Ph.D. student, Mohammed Aburidi, whose paper, "Optimal Transport and Contrastive-Based Clustering for Annotation-Free Tissue Analysis in Histopathology Images" was accepted to the 2023 IEEE International Conference on Machine Learning and Applications . June: Co-PI on a new NSF grant, " AMPS: Scalable Methods for Real-time Estimation of Power Systems under Uncertainty " (PI: Prof. Noemi Petra ). June: Congratulations to Ph.D. student, Mohammed Aburidi, whose paper, "CLOT: Contrastive Learning-Driven and Optimal Transport-Based Training for Simultaneous Clustering" has been accepted to 2023 IEEE International Conference on Image Processing . June: Panelist at the 2023 National Workshop on Data Science Education at UC Berkeley. May: Presented at 2023 SIAM Conference on Optimization .  Thanks to Prof. Johannes Brust and Prof. Bill Hager for the invitation and for organizing a great mini-symposium! May: Poster judge at the AWM Workshop Poster Session at SIAM OP23/ACDA23 .  Thanks to Prof. Chrysoula Tsogka and Prof. Noemi Petra for organizing a great event ! May: The paper, "Negative binomial optimization for low-count overdispersed sparse signal reconstruction," has been accepted to EUSIPCO 2023 .  Co-authored with graduate student, Yu Lu. May: Co-PI on a new NSF IUSE: CUE grant, 
" Developing inclusive, interdisciplinary undergraduate data science curricula in computing and social science " (PI: Prof. Suzanne Sindi , Co-PI: Prof. Juan Meza ).  In collaboration with wonderful colleagues at Tuskegee University and UC Berkeley . May: The Applied Math Graduate Program review has successfully closed.  Thanks to the Program Review Committee, Prof. Shilpa Khatri and Prof. Boaz Ilan , and to the External Review team, Prof. Ricardo Cortez , Prof. Becca Thomases ,
and Prof. Mark Hoefer . May: At the 2023 SIAM Conference on Dynamical Systems for the MGB-SIAM Early Career Fellowship cohort meeting. May: Congratulations to PhD. student, Mohammed Aburidi, for receiving the 2023-24 Graduate Student Opportunity Program Fellowship from UC Merced's Graduate Division! May: Congratulations to Ph.D. student, Mohammed Aburidi, for successfully passing his Qualifying Exam!  Thanks to Prof. Arnold Kim and Prof. Shawn Newsam for serving on his committee. May: Congratulations to Ph.D. student, Yu Lu, for successfully passing his Qualifying Exam!
Thanks to his committee members, Prof. Arnold Kim , Prof. Changqing Li ,
and Prof. Erica Rutter . May: Co-organizing with the awesome Prof. Changho Kim a Special Session on Scientific Computing ( here and here )  at the 2023 AMS Western Sectional Meeting at Fresno State. May: Congratulations to graduate students Aditya Ranganath, Yu Lu, Irabiel Romero, and Mohammed Aburidi, for being selected as graduate student mentors for the Lawrence Livermore National Lab-UC Merced Data Science Challenge . April: Congratulations to undergraduate student, Ruoxi Zhao, for receiving the Spring 2023 School of Natural Sciences Outstanding Graduating Senior Award in Applied Mathematics! April: Poster judge at the Fifth Central Valley Regional SIAM Student Chapter Conference . March: Presented at the 2023 SIAM Conference on Computational Science and Engineering on " Shape-Changing Trust-Region Methods Using Multipoint Symmetric Secant Matrices ." February: Presentation judge for the California Alliance for Minority Participation Annual Symposium. February: Serving as Chair of the AMS Western Section Program Committee from February 1, 2023 to January 31, 2024. January: Serving as Program Director for the SIAM Activity Group on Applied Mathematics Education with UC Merced alums Prof. Shelley Poole (MSU Denver) as Chair and Prof. Mario Bañuelos (Fresno State) as Vice-Chair. 2022 December: Presented at the 21st IEEE International Conference on Machine Learning and Applications .  Also chaired session on Machine Learning Fundamentals II. October: Virtual seminar at the ASU Computational Math Seminar.  Thanks to Prof. Malena Espa&ntildeol for the invitation to give a talk and meet your students! September: Congratulations to undergraduate student Ruoxi Zhao for receiving a fellowship from the Sustainable Horizons Institute's Broader Engagement Program to attend the 2022 SIAM Conference on Mathematics of Data Science in San Diego. September: Received the 2021-22 School of Natural Sciences Faculty Award for " Developing or Improving Academic Programs and Tracks ".  Many thanks to Dean Dumont and to my colleagues for the recognition! August: Congratulations to graduate student, Jocelyn Ornelas-Muñoz, for receiving a fellowship from UC Merced's NSF RTG: Data-Intensive Research and Computing program. 
Jocelyn is co-advised with Prof. Erica Rutter . August: Congratulations to graduate students, Jacky Alvarez and Kyle Wright, and undergraduate student, Dillon Marquard, for presenting at the SPIE Conference on Appilcations of Machine Learning .  See relevant papers here and here . July: Chaired the MS36 Student Days: Student Chapter Presentations Part I session
at the 2022 SIAM Annual Meeting in Pittsburgh, PA. July: Organized the mini-symposium "NSF RTG Programs in Applied Mathematics and Data Science" 
( MS2 and MS7 ) 
at the 2022 SIAM Conference on Applied Mathematics Education .  On the conference Organizing Committee with UC Merced alums Prof. Mario Bañuelos (Fresno State) and Prof. Shelley Poole (MSU Denver).
Also serving on the MGB-SIAM Early Career Fellowship Steering Committee. April: The paper, " Synthetic aperture radar image reconstruction using convolutional neural networks ," has been accepted for oral presentation at the SPIE Optics + Photonics conference in August in San Diego. Co-authored with graduate student Jacky Alvarez , Prof. Arnold Kim , and Prof. Chrysoula Tsogka . April: The paper, " Image classification and training with severe data loss ," has
been accepted for poster presentation at the SPIE Optics + Photonics conference in August in San Diego. Co-authored with undergraduate student Dillon Marquard and graduate student Kyle Wright. April: Congratulations to graduate student, Sarah Downs , for receiving the Department of Defense Science, Mathematics, and Research for Transformation Scholarship . Sarah is co-advised with Prof. Shilpa Khatri . April: Congratulations to undergraduate student, Cristian Espinosa, for being selected for the Livermore Lab Foundation Fellowship for the 2022-23 academic year.  Cristian is mentored by graduate student, Jocelyn Ornelas-Muñoz . April:  Congratulations to graduate student, Kyle Wright, whose communication proposal entitled "Numerical methods for a Schrodinger equation inverse eigenvalue problem" has been accepted for oral presentation at the "15th International Conference on Mathematical and Numerical Aspects of Wave Propagation".  Co-authored with Kyle's co-advisor, Prof. Boaz Ilan . March: Congratulations to  graduate student, Jacky Alvarez , for passing 
her Qualifying Exams and advancing to Ph.D. candidacy. February: Start of AMS Western Program Committee member 2-year term. January: Congratulations to graduate students, Yu Lu and Mohammed Aburidi, for passing their preliminary exams ! January:  The paper, " Large-Scale Optimization with Linear Equality Constraints using Reduced Compact Representation ," has been published in SIAM Journal on Scientific Computing.  Co-authored with Johannes Brust, Cosmin Petra, and Michael Saunders. 2021 December: Congratulations to graduate student, Kyle Wright, for receiving a fellowship from UC Merced's NSF NRT: Convergence of Nano-engineered Devices for Environmental and Sustainable Applications (CONDESA) program.  Kyle is co-advised with Prof. Boaz Ilan . July: Co-organizing the Workshop Celebrating Diversity at the SIAM Annual Meeting with Prof. Mario Bañuelos and Prof. Keisha Cook . July: Invited mini-symposium talk at the 2021 SIAM Conference on Optimization . June: Congratulations to graduate students, Jocelyn Ornelas-Muñoz and
Kyle Wright, for being selected as graduate student mentors for the Lawrence Livermore National Lab-UC Merced Data Science Challenge . May: Congratulations to Ph.D. student, Jacky Alvarez,  for being selected to take part in the 2021 Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory Data Science Summer Institute ! May: Graduate student Andrew Lazar successfully defended his M.S. thesis, 
"Novel Structural Variant Detection through  Relatedness with Negative Binomial Optimization".
Congratulations, Andrew! May: The paper, "Second-order trust-region optimization for data-limited inference", has been accepted to the 2021 European Signal Processing Conference . Co-authored with  EECS graduate student, Aditya Ranganath , Dr. Omar DeGuchy , and Prof. Mukesh Singhal . March: Invited talk at the University of Arizona RTG Research Showcase . 2020 November: Virtual talk at the 2020 Asilomar Conference on "Detecting novel genomic structural variants through negative binomial optimization." September: The webinar series of the Pacific Math Alliance is in full swing!  Learn more about graduate school and REUs in mathematics!
For inquiries, send an email . July: Graduate student Ashley De Luna successfully defended her M.S. thesis,
"Classification of Mild Cognitive Impairment under Data Limitations using
Deep Learning Techniques."  Congratulations, Ashley! July: Organized the SIAM Annual Meeting Workshop Celebrating Diversity. Thanks to co-organizers Prof. Talea Mayo and Prof. Mario Bañuelos and to the 
mini-symposia organizers Prof. Rebecca Morrison ( MS53: Recent Advances in Scientific Computation ), Prof. Sally Ellingson ( MS61: Machine Learning and in Silico Drug Discovery ), Prof. Marcella Gomez ( MS69: Data-Driven Methods and Models ), and Prof. Ariel Cintron-Arias ( MS46: Developing Workforce in 21st Century Applied Mathematics , which was written up in SIAM News ).  Graduate student Jacky Alvarez presented in the MS69 session. June: The paper, "Deep Convolutional Autoencoders for Deblurring and Denoising Low-Resolution Images", has been accepted to the 2020 International Symposium on Information Theory and Its Applications . Co-authored with Dr. Omar DeGuchy and undergraduate student Michael Mendez Jimenez. May: The paper, "A Supervised Learning Approach to Detect Signal Variation in Genome Data", has been accepted to the 2020 European Signal Processing Conference.  Co-authored with Prof. Mario Bañuelos , Dr. Omar DeGuchy ,
and Prof. Suzanne Sindi . May: The paper, "Genomic Signal Processing for Variant Detection in Diploid Parent-Child Trios", has been accepted to the 2020 European Signal Processing Conference.  Co-authored with  
graduate student Melissa Spence, Prof. Mario Bañuelos ,
and Prof. Suzanne Sindi . May: Invited seminar talk at the Mathematics of Data and Decisions at UC Davis. April: Congratulations to graduate student, Jacky Alvarez, for receiving the NSF NRT Intelligent Adaptive Systems fellowship for the 2021-2022 academic year. April: The paper, "Forward and inverse scattering in synthetic aperture radar using machine learning", has been accepted to the Applications of Machine Learning 2020 conference at the SPIE Optical Engineering + Applications symposium.  Co-authored with Dr. Omar DeGuchy ,
graduate student Jacky Alvarez, Prof. Arnold Kim , and Prof. Chrysoula Tsogka . April: Graduate student Melissa Spence successfully defended her M.S. thesis,
"Genomic Signal Processing for Structural Variant Detection in Related Individuals."  Congratulations,
Melissa!  (Melissa was co-advised with Prof. Suzanne Sindi .) April: Graduate student Omar DeGuchy successfully defended his Ph.D. dissertation,  
"Large-Scale Optimization and Deep Learning Techniques for Data-Driven Signal Processing".  Congratulations, Dr. DeGuchy!
(Dr. DeGuchy is now a data scientist at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.) March: The paper, "Computationally Efficient Decompositions of Oblique Projection Matrices", has been accepted for publication in the SIAM Journal on Matrix Analysis and Applications .  Co-authored with Dr. Johannes Brust and Dr. Cosmin Petra March: The book chapter, "Quasi-Newton Optimization Methods for Deep Learning Applications" in "Deep Learning Applications" is now available.  Co-authored with Dr. Jacob Rafati . March: The paper, "'Image Classification in Synthetic Aperture Radar using Reconstruction from Learned Inverse Scattering", has been accepted to the 
2020 International Geoscience and Remote Sensing Sympos

