Name: S. Shankar Sastry

Description: S. Shankar Sastry was the director of CITRIS from 2005–07 and now serves on the CITRIS advisory board. He previously served as the faculty director of the Blum Center for Developing Economies and was chair of the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Berkeley, from January 2001 through June 2004. From 1999–2001, he was on leave from Berkeley as director of the Information Technology Office at the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA). From 1996–99, he was the director of the Electronics Research Laboratory at UC Berkeley.Sastry received his Ph.D. degree in 1981 from the University of California, Berkeley. He was on the faculty of MIT as assistant professor from 1980–82 and Harvard University as a chaired Gordon McKay professor in 1994. His areas of personal research are resilient network control systems, cybersecurity, autonomous and unmanned systems (especially aerial vehicles), computer vision, nonlinear and adaptive control, control of hybrid and embedded systems, and software. Most recently he has been concerned with critical infrastructure protection, in the context of establishing a 10-year NSF Science and Technology Center called TRUST (Team for Research in Ubiquitous Secure Technologies).

Title: Director Emeritus (2005–07)

Website: http://robotics.eecs.berkeley.edu/~sastry

Email: sastry@citris-uc.org

Phone: (510) 642-5771

Address: University of California, Berkeley Dean's Office 320 McLaughlin Hall # 1700 Berkeley, 94720-1700

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/s-shankar-sastry/

Personal Website Text Short: Berkeley Robotics and Intelligent Machines Lab Berkeley Robotics and Intelligent Machines Lab Home FAQ People Publications Robotics Home Embedded Humans FAQ Publications Active Groups Biomimetic Millisystems Lab The goal of the Biomimetics
	  Millisystem Lab is to harness features of animal
	  manipulation, locomotion, sensing, actuation, mechanics,
	  dynamics, and control strategies to radically improve
	  millirobot capabilities. People and Robots Cloud Robotics, Deep Learning, Human-Centric Automation, and Bio-Inspired Robotics are among the primary research themes of the CITRIS People and Robots Initiative that focuses on new theory, benchmarks, software, and approaches that address challenges in the interest of society. Berkeley Laboratory for Automation Science and Engineering Berkeley Laboratory for Automation Science and Engineering, directed by Professor Ken Goldberg of IEOR and EECS, is a center for research in robotics and automation, with current projects in cloud robotics, computer assisted surgery, automated manufacturing, and new media artforms. Robot Learning Group We investigate novel techniques in machine learning, perception and control with applications to autonomous helicopter flight, personal robotics and surgical robotics. Tele-Immersion@UC Berkeley Laboratory for Automation Science and Engineering Tele-Immersion is aimed to enable users in geographically distributed sites to collaborate in real time in a shared simulated environment as if they were in the same physical room. The Embedded Humans ONR MURI The Embedded Human project is a MURI research project
	  funded by the Office of Naval Research (ONR). The
	  participants include University of California, Berkeley;
	  Stanford University; and University of California, Los
	  Angeles. The goal of the project is to design systems which
	  blend human cognitive understanding and control capability
	  with autonomy in vehicle ensembles through collaboration
	  among specialists in control and decision theory, artificial
	  intelligence, robotics, neuroscience, cognitive science, and
	  human-machine interfaces. BErkeley AeRobot (BEAR) The BErkeley AeRobot (BEAR) project is a collective, interdisciplinary research effort at UC Berkeley that encompasses the disciplines of hybrid systems theory, navigation, control, computer vision, communication, and multi-agent coordination, since 1996. We currently operate six fully instrumented helicopters, in addition to many fixed- and rotary wing vehicles under development, equipped with GPS/INS, camera, and other sensors on board, which we have been using to validate our control systems design algorithms for UAVs. In addition, we also have four mobile ground-based robots for pursuit-evasion games between the ground based robots and UAVs. Computer Vision Group Work in Artificial Intelligence in the EECS department at Berkeley involves foundational research in core areas of knowledge representation, reasoning, learning, planning, decision-making, vision, robotics, speech and language processing. There are also significant efforts aimed at applying algorithmic advances to applied problems in a range of areas, including bioinformatics, networking and systems, search and information retrieval. There are active collaborations with several groups on campus, including the campus-wide vision sciences group, the information retrieval group at the I-School and the campus-wide computational biology program. There are also connections to a range of research activities in the cognitive sciences, including aspects of psychology, linguistics, and philosophy. Work in this area also involves techniques and tools from statistics, neuroscience, control, optimization, and operations research. Micro Autonomous Systems and Technology (MAST) (Dead link) (archive.org from 2015) Research encompassed by this project is aimed at understanding the fundamentals of design, mechanics, and autonomous control of groups of very small aerial and terrestrial robotic platforms. Medical Robotics at UC Berkeley Research in minimally invasive surgical robots, including laparoscopic manipulators, teleoperation, and teletaction. Networked Embedded Systems Technology (NEST) (Dead link) (archive.org from 2013) We are developing an Open Experimental software/hardware Platform for Network Embedded Systems Technology research that will accelerate the development of algorithms, services, and their composition into challenging applications dramatically. Resources FAQ about this website To Do List Admins only Website Copyright ©

