Name: Samuel Tseng

Description: Dr. Tseng is an Assistant Project Scientist at the Institute of Business and Economic Research (IBER) and a Member of the Center on the Economics and Demography of Aging (CEDA). Dr. Tseng’s research interests include information economics, health insurance, information technology, and medical technology utilization. Dr. Tseng currently conducts multi-disciplinary, multi-campus research that develops an interactive, video-based consumer IT application (i.e., decision aid) to educate arthritis patients about the influence of physicians on their decisions to undergo joint replacement surgery. This project contributes to game-based learning because, while game-based learning has been applied to help children and teenagers make healthcare decisions, this application has not yet extended to people aged 50+. This extension is important because this age group incurs more health care expenditure than younger individuals. Game-based learning generally refers to consumer IT applications built for engaging users in learning activities. This is the category where decision aids fall because decision aids are educational IT applications, aiming to engage patients in comparing and contrasting their options. Over 30% of Americans aged 50+ have doctor-diagnosed arthritis, leading to over 1 million joint replacement procedures performed each year. This research is conducted by a multi-disciplinary team with expertise in human-computer interaction, economics, medicine, and health services research. The research team members are based at three UC campuses: Berkeley, Davis, and San Francisco.Prior to joining IBER, Dr. Tseng was an Assistant Project Scientist at the Berkeley Center for Health Technology in the School of Public Health. Dr. Tseng holds a Ph.D. in Economics from the University of Chicago.

Title: Assistant Project Scientist

Website: nan

Email: samuel.tseng@berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 423-3185

Address: University of California, Berkeley
Institute of Business and Economic Research
371 Stephens Hall
Berkeley, CA 94720

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/samuel-tseng/

Personal Website Text Short: nan

