Name: Scott Stephens

Description: I am interested in the interactions of wildland fire and ecosystems. This includes how prehistoric fires once interacted with ecosystems, how current wildland fires are affecting ecosystems, and how future fires and management may change this interaction. I am also interested in wildland fire and forest policy and how it can be improved to meet the challenges of the next decades. How fire will be affected by climate change is a new area of research.Research Interests:fire ecology, wildfire effects, prescribed fire, fire behavior, fire policy, forest policy

Title: Professor of Fire Science

Website: https://nature.berkeley.edu/stephenslab/

Email: sstephens@berkeley.edu

Phone: nan

Address: nan

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/scott-stephens/

Personal Website Text Short: Stephens Lab – Research & Education in Wildland Fire Science at the University of California, Berkeley Skip to content Stephens Lab Research & Education in Wildland Fire Science at the University of California, Berkeley Menu Home Mission Publications Courses Lab Members News Employment Prospective Students S. A. F. E. Summary of 20 Year of Forest Restoration and Fuels Reduction Research Click the box above to read more Summary of 20 Years of Managed Wildfire Work in Yosemite National Park Click the box above to read more Resilient Forest Characteristics Click the box above to read more Climate Change and Fire in the Sierra Nevada Click the box above to read more The mission of the Fire Science Laboratory at the University of California Berkeley is to conduct scientific research and provide academic training in the fields of wildland fire science, ecology, and resource management. Specifically, we strive to: 1) secure funding for and perform original, quality research in fire science, ecology, and management, and 2) participate in and encourage interdisciplinary research efforts when possible, and disseminate findings by publishing research in peer reviewed academic journals. Contact Us Stephens Laboratory 360 Mulford Hall (510) 642-4934 Additional contact info Affiliations California Fire Science Consortium UC Center for Fire Research and Outreach Student Association for Fire Ecology (SAFE) ESPM College of Natural Resources UC Berkeley Accessibility | Nondiscrimination | Privacy Copyright © 2024 UC Regents. All rights reserved.

