Name: Shawn Newsam

Description: Dr. Newsam is an associate professor in the school of engineering at the University of California, Merced. He joined UC Merced as a founding faculty in July of 2005 after being selected from a pool of over 13,000 applicants for one of 60 inaugural positions. From September 2003 to June 2005, he was a post-doctoral researcher with the Sapphire Scientific Data Mining group in the Center for Applied Scientific Computing at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. He received his Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of California, Santa Barbara, his M.S. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of California, Davis, and his B.S. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from the University of California, Berkeley. (So, if you are counting, he is now at his fifth UC institution!) His research interests include image processing, computer vision, pattern recognition and data mining particularly as applied to scientific data.

Title: Associate Professor

Website: http://faculty.ucmerced.edu/snewsam/index.html

Email: snewsam@ucmerced.edu

Phone: (209) 228-4167

Address: University of California, Merced School of Engineering 5200 N. Lake Rd. Merced, CA 95343

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-shawn-newsam/

Personal Website Text Short: Shawn Newsam Shawn Newsam Associate Professor and Founding Faculty Electrical Engineering and Computer Science University of California at Merced Home Bio CV Publications Funded Projects Teaching Service Invited Talks Affiliations Press Links Contact Welcome to my UC Merced website I conduct research in image processing, computer vision, and pattern recognition. I am particularly interested in images and videos that have location associated with them.
	  Overhead imagers from satellite or aerial platforms are a traditional example. However, the advent of low-cost, small GPS recievers has broadened this. Unmaned aerial vehicles
	   (more commonly known as drones) now represent another source of overhead images and videos. And, there are millions of photographs and movies taken from smart phones, etc. that have location
	   information. Knowing the location of these images and videos allows us to infer things about our Earth through image understanding. I develop fundamental image processing, computer vision, and pattern recognition
	   techniques to analyze these images and videos. PhD POSITIONS AVAILABLE: Professor Newsam is looking to recruit well-qualified PhD students to 
      start in fall 2018. For more information, please click here . For more information about my research, please visit the Computer Vision Lab at UC Merced. Valid 
	  XHTML | Valid 
	  CSS | Copyright ©2009 Shawn Newsam | Design by SmallPark

