Name: Soheil Ghiasi

Description: Soheil Ghiasi received his PhD in Computer Science from UCLA in 2004 and received the Harry M. Showman prize from the UCLA College of Engineering in the same year. He has been on the faculty at Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, UC Davis since 2004, where he directs Laboratory for Embedded and Programmable Systems (LEPS).ResearchI am interested in design methodologies for embedded and cyber-physical systems (CPS), which utilize computing to monitor, service and control various application-specific processes, including those in the physical world. My work deals with modeling, analysis, synthesis and optimization of embedded software, programmable execution platforms (e.g., processors, GPUs and FPGAs) and tools for automating the design process. The area offers an interesting blend of theory and practice: real-world applications give rise to research problems, for which solutions are developed using a combination of analytical and experimental techniques.Currently, my students and I are working on efficient execution of trained deep convolutional neural networks (an important technique in machine learning), and embedded systems for selected health applications, such as lung function evaluation and transabdominal fetal oximetry.Current ProjectsEnergy Efficient Inference using Deep Convolutional Neural Networks (DCNN)Kino: Monitoring and Mentoring of Physical ExercisesProject Vectors-Design and programming methodologies for parallel and reconfigurable embedded computing platforms-Innovative applications of digital computing systems in sectors such as medicine, agriculture and machine intelligence

Title: Professor

Website: http://www.ece.ucdavis.edu/~soheil/

Email: soheil@ece.ucdavis.edu

Phone: (530) 752-0836

Address: University of California, Davis 3171 Kemper Hall One Shields Avenue Davis, CA 95616

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-soheil-ghiasi/

Personal Website Text Short: Soheil Ghiasi Soheil
Ghiasi Professor Department of
Electrical and Computer Engineering University of California, Davis One Shields Avenue Davis, CA 95616 Office: 3171 Kemper Hall Phone: (530) 752-0836 Email: my-last-name @ucdavis.edu Brief Bio | Publications | CV | Research
Group | Prospective
Students I am a professor at the Department
of
Electrical and Computer Engineering , and a member of the Computer Science Department graduate
group at UC-Davis .
I lead our team at the Laboratory for Embedded and
Programmable Systems
(LEPS) , where we work on embedded and cyber-physical systems,
with an
emphasis on applications in health and medicine. I received my PhD in Computer Science from UCLA in
2004. My homepage on the ECE department may contain some news bits. My research group participates in the activities of the following research centers: National Center for Interventional Biophotonic Technologies (NCIBT) Center for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence Research (CeDAR) Center for Neuroengineering and Medicine Research I am
interested in design methodologies for embedded and
cyber-physical systems
(CPS). In my research, I aim to build systems that can monitor, predict
and
influence application-specific processes, including those in the
physical world
and/or involving humans. More specifically, my research work deals with
system-level challenges, such as modeling, analysis, and
optimization of embedded
systems; use-inspired signal processing and machine learning
algorithms; programmable execution platforms (e.g., processors,
DSPs, GPUs
and FPGAs) and tools for automating the design process. The
area focuses
on system-level, integrative, and human-in-the-loop challenges, and offers an
interesting
blend of theory and practice: real-world applications give rise to
research
problems, for which solutions are developed using a combination
of analytical and experimental (data-driven)
techniques. Our team is always on the lookout for emerging applications of societal
significance, which can benefit from advances in the technology. While
the
specific application focus may change from time to time, we are
presently
focused on human health and wellness as the target domain. In
particular, we
are currently working on transabdominal
fetal oximetry , wearable
bladder volume sensing , data analytics & machine
intelligence for health. Project Vectors System-level
design methodologies for embedded and
cyber-physical systems Innovative
applications of digital technology in key sectors, such as medicine,
agriculture and machine intelligence. Current
Projects Transabdominal
Fetal Oximetry Restoring
the Bladder Fill Sensation for Individuals Living with Spinal Cord
Injury AI/ML for health data Past
Projects Convolutional Neural
Networks (CNN) Inference on Resource-Constrained Devices Monitoring and
Mentoring Physical Activities Streaming
Software Synthesis for MPSoCs PARTS:
Parallel Architectures for Programmable Network Measurement Architectures
for Image Processing and Object Tracking Logic
and High-Level Synthesis Publications Teaching Design
and Optimization of Embedded Computing Systems (EEC284) Data
Analytics in Computer Engineering (EEC289Q) Embedded Systems
(EEC172) Digital Systems (EEC18
and 180) Brief Bio Soheil Ghiasi is a professor of electrical and computer engineering at
the
University of California, Davis. His research interests include
architecture,
design methodologies, and design automation techniques for embedded
systems,
with particular emphasis on systems that find applications in areas of
significant societal reach, such as machine intelligence and human
health. His research projects have been supported by grants from
NSF, NIH, State of California, industry, as well as, philanthropic
support of generous individuals and foundations. He has served on the
organizing
and
technical program committees of numerous technical
conferences, 
associate editor of
several Journals in the broader area of embedded computing systems, and
as an expert witness and consultant in the areas of computer-aided
design and eletronic medical devices. He
received his B.S. degree from Sharif University of Technology, in 1998,
and his
M.S. and Ph.D. in Computer Science from University of California, Los
Angeles
(UCLA) in 2002 and 2004, respectively. He is a
senior member of IEEE and ACM. Advice/Personal/Misc. Collection of links to
articles/talks/resources that I found interesting. highly recommended
especially to students who have just started/are about to start college
or graduate school.

