Name: Spencer Castro

Description: Spencer Castro is an assistant professor in the Department of Management of Complex Systems at the University of California, Merced. His research encompasses workload measurement and modeling in human-machine systems, especially within human-computer interaction, driving, automation, and data visualization and manipulation.Castro received a National Science Foundation Pre-Doctoral Graduate Research Fellowship, or GRFP, in 2015 to study mobile device interactions while multitasking. In 2019, he received a Postdoctoral Fellowship for Underrepresented and Disadvantaged Scholars at the University of Utah to model real-time cognitive workload fluctuations in applied settings. These settings included conversations while driving and monitoring autonomous aerial vehicles.His recent multidisciplinary collaborations have resulted in peer-reviewed publications from the Journal of Experimental Psychology: Applied to IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics. He has also co-authored review chapters in The Psychology of Learning and Motivation and The Handbook of Human Multitasking.At UC Merced, Castro seeks to embody CITRIS’s mission to tackle problems in the interest of society. For example, in his undergraduate Cognitive Engineering course, students are encouraged to develop and assess technological interactions that affect Merced’s rural community with an eye toward inclusive design. The same approach applies to his Data Analysis and Optimization course, where students wrestle with real-world data sets such as local traffic accidents.As faculty at a minority-serving institution and a member of the Native Repatriation, Cultural Preservation, and Outreach Committee, Castro has spoken about the opportunities available in STEM careers to multiple local California tribes at career fairs and invited events. A strong advocate for minoritized groups, he was the Diversity Graduate Application Preparation president at the University of Utah, which prepares underrepresented students to apply to graduate school.Research interests: human-computer interaction, driving, automation, data visualization, cognitive modeling.

Title: Assistant Professor of Management of Complex Systems

Website: https://spencercastro.com

Email: scastro39@ucmerced.edu

Phone: nan

Address: University of California, Merced

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/spencer-castro/

Personal Website Text Short: CAR TECH Lab Toggle navigation Join Research Home People Research Publications Contact Future Members CAR TECH What it stands for : Cognitive and Automotive Research for Technological Engagement and Control in Humans READ MORE Modeling Cognitive Workload Dr. Castro and collaborators propose new mathematical models for analyzing reaction time data that capture the classically difficult tradeoff between speed and accuracy. READ MORE DIVIDED ATTENTION People increasingly use multiple displays along with mobile devices simultaneously, and this split in attention has detrimental effects... Read More MODELING COGNITIVE WORKLOAD Our experiments demonstrate how dual-task load affects the parameters of evidence-accumulation models... Read More DRIVING With the emergence of vehicle-based technologies that could compete for attention due to visual and cognitive workloads in a driving environment, it is important to accurately assess the various components of potential distractions... Read More COGNITION IN NATURE According to some theories, spending time in a natural environment can restore depleted cognitive resources. If this is true, then nature exposure may modulate attention... Read More About CAR TECH Lab The CAR TECH lab's research program encompasses the development of measurement tools and computational methods to reduce risk, errors, and even fatalities associated with systems containing technological distractions. We bridge computational modeling with industry-facing applications to determine the impacts of incorporating technology into our everyday existence. Read More AAA Study: Distracted Driving AAA Study: Distracted Driving The AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety in collaboration with the The Applied Cognition Lab has produced more than a decade of research devoted to in-vehicle interactions with technological distractions. Featured Publications Dynamic Workload Measurement and Modeling: Driving and Conversing September 2023 The Persistence of Distraction: The Hidden Costs of Intermittent Multitasking July 2022 Cognitive Workload Measurement and Modeling Under Divided Attention April 2019 VIEW ALL Join CAR TECH Lab! Now acccepting applications for: Ph.D. Students Learn More Research Assistants Learn More Address 5200 Lake Rd Merced, CA 95343. USA People Research Publications Contact Future Members Copyright 2021 - Spencer C. Castro

