Name: Stavros G. Vougioukas

Description: Stavros G. Vougioukas is a professor of biological and agricultural engineering at the University of California, Davis, where he serves as vice chair and undergraduate faculty advisor in the Department of Biological and Agricultural Engineering.Vougioukas works in the area of mechanization and automation of specialty crops, focusing on the design, development and testing of actuators, sensors and control systems for optimal management of inputs and products.He received his diploma in electrical engineering from Aristotle University in Thessaloniki, Greece in 1989. He conducted graduate studies in the United States under a Fulbright grant and several research assistantships. He received his M.Sc. in electrical and computer engineering from SUNY at Buffalo in 1999 and his robotics and automation Ph.D. in electrical, computers and systems engineering at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1995. Afterward, he worked for one year as a postdoctoral researcher at the Department of Industrial Engineering in Parma, Italy. Until 2011 he worked as faculty at the School of Agriculture of the Aristotle University in Thessaloniki, Greece. In 2012 he joined the biological and agricultural engineering department of UC Davis.Vougioukas has published more than 140 journal and conference papers, most of them in agricultural robotics and automation. He is currently leading several research projects on agricultural robotics – focusing on labor-saving technologies – with funding from grower commodity boards, federal agencies and private industry.

Title: Professor of Biological and Agricultural Engineering

Website: http://faculty.engineering.ucdavis.edu/vougioukas/

Email: svougioukas@ucdavis.edu

Phone: (530) 752-1890

Address: University of California, Davis Department of Biological and Agricultural Engineering 2030 Bainer Hall Davis, California 95616

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/stavros-g-vougioukas/

Personal Website Text Short: Vougioukas, Stavros – Biological and Agricultural Engineering UC Davis College of Engineering Maps and Directions Skip to content Faculty Biography Publications Teaching Research Grants Lab Members Projects Almond Yield Monitor Automated strawberry capping Grapes Harvest-Aid NRI Co-Robotic Harvesting Orchard Platform NRI Tree Fruit Harvesting with Arrays of Vision-Guided Linear Robot Arms NRI:Small: FRAIL-bots: Fragile cRop hArvest-aIding mobiLe robots Rotator-Mixer for COVID-19 Testing Vougioukas, Stavros Stavros G. Vougioukas Professor and Vice Chair Department of Biological and Agricultural Engineering 2030 Bainer Hall University of California Davis, California 95616 Email: svougioukas at ucdavis.edu Phone: (530)752-1890 Research Professor Vougioukas works in agricultural robotics, mechanization, and automation for specialty crops. His work focuses on robotic and robot-aided harvesting and on the design, development, and testing of actuators, perception, and control systems for optimal management of inputs and products. Google Scholar Comments are closed. Stavros G. Vougioukas Professor Biological and Agricultural Engineering University of California Davis, CA 95616 Email: svougioukas at ucdavis.edu Phone: (530)752-1890 Privacy and Accessibility UC Davis Principles of Community Copyright © The Regents of the University of California, Davis campus. All Rights Reserved.

