Name: Stefano Schiavon

Description: Stefano Schiavon is a professor of architecture and civil and environmental engineering at UC Berkeley and associate director of the UC Berkeley Center for Environmental Design Research (CEDR). Schiavon’s research is focused on finding ways to reduce energy consumption in buildings while improving occupant health, well-being and productivity. He has researched sustainable architecture, air conditioning and satisfaction and has experience in laboratory measurements, post-occupancy evaluation and building performance simulation.Schiavon is involved in the Center for the Built Environment and the SinBerBEST project. He earned a Ph.D. in energy engineering in 2008 and an M.S. in mechanical engineering with honors in 2005 from the University of Padova, Italy. He received the 2010 REHVA Young Scientist Award and 2013 ASHRAE Ralph Nevins Physiology and Human Environment Award. He won three best papers awards in 2018 from the journal Building and Environment.Research interests: sustainable building design, building energy efficiency, indoor environment quality, well-being, thermal comfort, indoor air quality, mechanical systems, post-occupancy evaluation.

Title: Professor of Architecture and Civil and Environmental Engineering

Website: http://scholar.google.com.sg/citations?user=2GJDqawAAAAJ

Email: schiavon@berkeley.edu

Phone: nan

Address: University of California, Berkeley

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/stefano-schiavon/

Personal Website Text Short: https://scholar.google.com.sg/citations?user=2GJDqawAAAAJ Our systems have detected unusual traffic from your computer network.  Please try your request again later. Why did this happen? This page appears when Google automatically detects requests coming from your computer network which appear to be in violation of the Terms of Service . The block will expire shortly after those requests stop. This traffic may have been sent by malicious software, a browser plug-in, or a script that sends automated requests.  If you share your network connection, ask your administrator for help — a different computer using the same IP address may be responsible. Learn more Sometimes you may see this page if you are using advanced terms that robots are known to use, or sending requests very quickly. IP address: 136.25.14.173 Time: 2024-05-24T03:23:12Z URL: https://scholar.google.com.sg/citations?user=2GJDqawAAAAJ

