Name: Stephen Maurer

Description: Stephen M. Maurer is Director of the Goldman School Project on Information Technology and Homeland Security (“ITHS”). ITHS serves as a focal point for the School’s science, innovation, technology initiatives. Maurer teaches and writes in the fields of homeland security, innovation policy, and the new economy.From 1982 to 1996, Maurer practiced high technology and intellectual property litigation at leading law firms in Arizona and California. During that time he represented such diverse clients as IBM, Apple, Aerojet General Corporation, and the Navajo Nation.Maurer has been a lecturer at the Goldman School since 1999. During that time he has written extensively on a variety of topics including database policy, academic/industry relations, patent law, antitrust, and open source biology. His research has appeared in numerous journals including Nature, Science and Economica. Maurer teaches courses on the the New Economy (“Cyberlife,”), Science Policy, and Information Technology.Maurer’s current research interests range from Homeland Security to designing better institutions for neglected disease research. He plans to teach a new Homeland Security course in the Fall.Maurer holds a B.A.degree from Yale University and a J.D. in law from Harvard University.

Title: Adjunct Associate Professor, Director

Website: http://gspp.berkeley.edu/iths/maurercv.htm

Email: smaurer@berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 642-6511

Address: University of California, Berkeley Goldman School of Public Policy 2607 Hearst Ave, MC 7320 Berkeley, Ca 94720 - 7320

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-stephen-maurer/

Personal Website Text Short: Content Not Found | Goldman School of Public Policy | Goldman School of Public Policy | University of California, Berkeley Skip to main content Programs Programs How a better future gets made. Learn More Master of Public Policy Master of Public Affairs Master of Development Practice Doctoral Program Global and Executive Programs Undergraduate Programs People & Community People & Community Camaraderie, collaboration, and a commitment to a more just, equitable world. Learn More Diversity, Equity, Inclusion Student Groups Alumni Directories Research & Impact Research & Impact Putting the highest standards of analytic rigor to work in the service of the public good. Learn More Faculty Publications Working Papers Centers News Center Policy Initiatives Career Services Career Services The resources, support, and network for the next step in your policy career. Learn More For Students For Employers Career Events Employment Statistics Client-based Projects Connect About GSPP Events Make a Gift Submit Find a Program Find a Faculty Member Find a Center Content Not Found We cannot find any content for that URL. Please check your URL for mistakes, or use the navigation above to find the information you seek. 2607 Hearst Avenue Berkeley , CA 94720-7320 Phone: (510) 642-4670 Fax: (510) 642-0538 Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Facebook Find us on LinkedIn Follow us on Instagram Programs Master of Public Policy Master of Public Affairs Master of Development Practice Doctoral Program Undergraduate Programs Course Information Admissions Events People & Community Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Student Groups Alumni Directories GSPP Intranet (login required) Research & Impact Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Student Groups Alumni Directories GSPP Intranet (login required) Career Services Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Student Groups Alumni Directories GSPP Intranet (login required) About GSPP Global & Executive Events Give Now © Copyright 2024 Richard & Rhoda Goldman School of Public Policy,
						University of California, Berkeley Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy

