Name: Steven Weber

Description: Steven Weber works at the intersection of technology markets, intellectual property regimes and international politics. His research, teaching and advisory work focus on the political economy of knowledge intensive industries, with special attention to health care, information technology, software and global political economy issues relating to competitiveness. He is also a frequent contributor to scholarly and public debates on international politics and U.S. foreign policy. One of the world’s most expert practitioners of scenario planning, Weber has worked with over a hundred companies and government organizations to develop this discipline as a strategy planning tool.Steve went to medical school at Stanford University and then did his Ph.D. in the political science department at Stanford. He served as special consultant to the president of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and has held academic fellowships with the Council on Foreign Relations and the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, and was director of the Institute of International Studies at UC Berkeley from 2003–09.His books include “The Success of Open Source” and most recently “The End of Arrogance: America in the Global Competition of Ideas” (with Bruce Jentleson), “Deviant Globalization: Black Market Economy in the 21st Century” (with Jesse Goldhammer and Nils Gilman) and “Bloc by Bloc: How to Organize a Global Enterprise for the New Regional Order.”Weber is the faculty director for the UC Berkeley Center for Long Term Cybersecurity (CLTC).

Title: Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Long Term Cybersecurity, UC Berkeley

Website: http://www.ischool.berkeley.edu/people/faculty/stevenweber

Email: steve_weber@berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 642-8739

Address: nan

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/steven-weber/

Personal Website Text Short: Steven Weber | UC Berkeley School of Information Skip to main content Submit Log in UC Berkeley Give Volunteer Contact Us Alumni Alumni Get Involved & Give Back Sign Up to Volunteer Stay Connected I School Slack Alumni News Alumni Events Alumni Accounts Career Support Log in About About Academic Mission Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Resources DEIBJ Leadership History Featured Profiles Featured Faculty Featured Alumni South Hall Work at the I School Subscribe to Email Announcements Logos & Style Guide Directions & Parking Contact Us The School of Information is UC Berkeley’s newest professional school. Located in the center of campus, the I School is a graduate research and education community committed to expanding access to information and to improving its usability, reliability, and credibility while preserving security and privacy. Programs Programs MIMS Program Admissions Career Outcomes Degree Requirements Paths Through the MIMS Degree Final Project Funding Your Education Admissions Events Visit Us Request Information 5th Year MIDS Program Career Outcomes Capstone Project MIDS Program Admissions Jack Larson Data for Good Fellowship Tuition & Fees Capstone Project Women in MIDS MIDS Curriculum News Request Information MICS Program Admissions MICS Student News Tuition & Fees Capstone Project Request Information Ph.D. Program Admissions Career Outcomes Degree Requirements Funding Your Education Dissertations Admissions Events Request Information Graduate Certificates Applied Data Science Certificate ICTD Certificate Citizen Clinic The School of Information offers four degrees: The Master of Information Management and Systems (MIMS) program educates information professionals to provide leadership for an information-driven world. The Master of Information and Data Science (MIDS) is an online degree preparing data science professionals to solve real-world problems. The 5th Year MIDS program is a streamlined path to a MIDS degree for Cal undergraduates. The Master of Information and Cybersecurity (MICS) is an online degree preparing cybersecurity leaders for complex cybersecurity challenges. Our Ph.D. in Information Science is a research program for next-generation scholars of the information age. Courses Courses Information Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule Fall 2024 Course Schedule Data Science Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule Cybersecurity Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule The School of Information's courses bridge the disciplines of information and computer science, design, social sciences, management, law, and policy. We welcome interest in our graduate-level Information classes from current UC Berkeley graduate and undergraduate students and community members. More information about signing up for classes. People People stevew Faculty Ladder & Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Emeriti Students MIMS Students MIDS Students 5th Year MIDS Students MICS Students Ph.D. Students Staff Visitors Research Research Publications Centers & Labs Research Areas Computer-mediated Communication Data Science Design Entrepreneurship Human-computer Interaction (HCI) Information Economics Information Organization Information Policy Information Retrieval & Search Information Visualization Law Privacy Security Social & Cultural Studies Technology for Developing Regions User Experience Research Research by faculty members and doctoral students keeps the I School on the vanguard of contemporary information needs and solutions. The I School is also home to several active centers and labs, including the Center for Long-Term Cybersecurity (CLTC) , the Center for Technology, Society & Policy , and the BioSENSE Lab . Careers Careers For Employers Why Hire I School? Events Request a Resume Book Leadership Development Program Mailing List For Nonprofit and Government Employers For Students & Alumni Events Resources Leadership Development Program Advising Jobscan & Applicant Tracking Systems Resume & LinkedIn Review Resume Book I School graduate students and alumni have expertise in data science, user experience design & research, product management, engineering, information policy, cybersecurity, and more — learn more about hiring I School students and alumni . News News Press Coverage Alumni News I School Voices Speakers Celebrate Moments of Persistence, Resilience, and Camaraderie at 2024 Commencement On May 18, 2024, the School of Information welcomed 423 of 670 total graduating students from the Master of... Commencement Speaker and Net Neutrality Champion Gigi Sohn Speaks on the Importance of Tech Advocacy Gigi Sohn gave the keynote speech at the UC Berkeley School of Information May 2024 Commencement. Awards Honor May 2024 Graduates The School of Information’s May 2024 Commencement presented an opportunity to honor faculty and student achievements... The I School Graduate Scholars Program in 2024 The initiative is now known at the I School as the I School Graduate Scholars (ISGS) program, which... Events Events Distinguished Lecture Series I School Lectures Information Access Seminars CLTC Events For the I School Community Alumni Events Women in MIDS Events School of Information May 2024 Commencement May 18, 2024, 2:00 pm Parler Games: Folklore, Social Media, and Insurrection Apr 24, 2024, 12:30 pm to 1:45 pm Misinformation In and About Science Feb 21, 2024, 12:10 pm to 1:30 pm Insight and Oversights: Shaping the Future of Visual Analytics with AI Jan 31, 2024, 12:10 pm to 1:30 pm Steven Weber Professor of the Graduate School stevew@ischool.berkeley.edu (510) 643-3755 Focus International politics, international business, and the information economy; Cybersecurity; Behavioral economics within Information Systems Research areas Data Science Entrepreneurship Information Economics Security Biography Steven Weber works at the intersection of technology markets, intellectual property regimes, and international politics. His research, teaching, and advisory work focus on the political economy of knowledge intensive industries, with special attention to health care, information technology, software, and global political economy issues relating to competitiveness. He is also a frequent contributor to scholarly and public debates on international politics and US foreign policy. One of the world’s most expert practitioners of scenario planning, Weber has worked with over a hundred companies and government organizations to develop this discipline as a strategy planning tool. Steve went to medical school at Stanford then did his Ph.D. in the political science department also at Stanford. He served as special consultant to the president of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and has held academic fellowships with the Council on Foreign Relations and the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, and was Director of the Institute of International Studies at UC Berkeley from 2003 to 2009. His books include The Success of Open Source and most recently The End of Arrogance: America in the Global Competition of Ideas (with Bruce Jentleson) and Deviant Globalization: Black Market Economy in the 21st Century (with Jesse Goldhammer and Nils Gilman). Forthcoming is Bloc by Bloc: How to Organize a Global Enterprise for the New Regional Order (2019) which explains how economic geography is evolving around machine learning, and the consequences for multinational organizations in the post financial crisis world Steve is the faculty director for the Berkeley Center for Long Term Cybersecurity (CLTC). What brought you to the I School? I came to the I School because of my substantive interests in political economy of information-intensive production, but also because I am learning to build prototypes and experiments as a way to evaluate and test theory in this fast-evolving space. As the data 'revolution' evolves, I've become increasingly interested in how decision-makers, particularly inside complex organizations, will (and should) use data products to inform strategic decision making. And as machine learning jumps to the forefront of global economic growth and development, I'm fascinated by how this new wave of technology is reshaping the terms of competition between national economies. What information issues interest you most? I’ve had a long-standing interest in the open source software community that hasn’t ebbed; but these days, I’m particularly interested in the political-economic models that support the production and delivery of information services and data products — a problem that some people think has been 'solved'.  Not even close! The international dimension is probably the most interesting to me right now, as I believe national economic development theories and policies are starting to take seriously the long term consequences of the shift in value creation to data and machine learning. You've been on the Berkeley faculty (in the department of political science) since 1989; how have your academic interests evolved during that time? My theoretical interests haven’t really changed that much.  I’ve always studied large scale systems of non-hierarchical cooperation, and I’ve tended to follow that puzzle into different substantive areas — from international regimes to open source software communities.  I suspect some version of that problem will keep me busy for another couple decades at least. A Web site you recommend? Wordle.net . Make your own word clouds, still a very compelling and memorable way to make a point, when used in the right circumstances. And, of course, Giants.com -- the official website of the NY Football Giants. Something few people know about you? I’d rather be on my road bike than just about anything else. There is no endorphin high like that which can be achieved in the digital world. What keeps you up at night? The ‘other side’ of the acute phase of the 2008–9 financial crisis.  We haven’t really begun to see the full range of political-economic-social fallout from this series of events, and a sense of complacency has snuck back in.  The 2016 and 18 elections barely budged that needle, relative to what I think is coming. The world is going to look very different in 2020 and beyond, but most Americans (including much of the educated elite) still acts as if the crisis was just a blip on the screen and we’re back to 'trend' in most respects, with an occasional burst of concern about inequality, populism, and the like.  I think it's a much bigger discontinuity and that’s going to become evident over time as machine learning shifts the most fundamental determinants of economic and political power on the global landscape.  The School of Information is a great place to locate one's research and teaching right in the middle of that agenda. And I'm also losing sleep over the NY Giants plan for getting Daniel Jones to make quicker reads in the pocket and reduce turnovers. Current Research Employment effects of Information Technology and Data Global Economic Geography in the aftermath of the 2009 Financial Crisis Long Term evolution of cybersecurity:  theory, practice and behaviors. People stevew Faculty Students Staff Visitors Recent courses taught Fall 2020 Info 289B. Advanced Citizen Clinic Practicum Fall 2019 Info 289. Public Interest Cybersecurity: The Citizen Clinic Practicum Info 289. Public Interest Cybersecurity: The Citizen Clinic Practicum Info 232. Applied Behavioral Economics Summer 2019 Cyber 289. Public Interest Cybersecurity: The Citizen Clinic Practicum Cyber 289. Public Interest Cybersecurity: The Citizen Clinic Practicum Spring 2019 Info 290. Scenario Thinking for Information Economy and Society Info 295. Doctoral Colloquium 1 of 4 next › Recent publications 2019 Bloc by Bloc: How to Build a Global Enterprise for the New Regional Order 2018 China’s long game in techno-nationalism 2017 The new world of data: Four provocations on the Internet of Things 2011 Deviant Globalization:  Black Market Economy in the 21st Century 2010 The End of Arrogance: America in the Global Competition of Ideas I School Ph.D. students Nikita Mehandru Last updated: May 23, 2024 Sign up for more information Find us on Facebook Find us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Connect on Linkedin Watch us on YouTube View Flickr Photos Read our Medium Publication Copyright 1995–2024 UC Regents Nondiscrimination | Accessibility | Privacy UC Berkeley Give Volunteer Contact Us Alumni Log in About Academic Mission Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Resources DEIBJ Leadership History Featured Profiles Featured Faculty Featured Alumni South Hall Work at the I School Subscribe to Email Announcements Logos & Style Guide Directions & Parking Contact Us Programs MIMS Program Admissions Career Outcomes Degree Requirements Paths Through the MIMS Degree Final Project Funding Your Education Admissions Events Visit Us Request Information 5th Year MIDS Program Career Outcomes Capstone Project MIDS Program Admissions Jack Larson Data for Good Fellowship Tuition & Fees Capstone Project Women in MIDS MIDS Curriculum News Request Information MICS Program Admissions MICS Student News Tuition & Fees Capstone Project Request Information Ph.D. Program Admissions Career Outcomes Degree Requirements Funding Your Education Dissertations Admissions Events Request Information Graduate Certificates Applied Data Science Certificate ICTD Certificate Citizen Clinic Application Courses Information Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule Fall 2024 Course Schedule Data Science Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule Cybersecurity Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule People stevew Faculty Ladder & Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Emeriti Students MIMS Students MIDS Students 5th Year MIDS Students MICS Students Ph.D. Students Staff Visitors Research Publications Centers & Labs Research Areas Computer-mediated Communication Data Science Design Entrepreneurship Human-computer Interaction (HCI) Information Economics Information Organization Information Policy Information Retrieval & Search Information Visualization Law Privacy Security Social & Cultural Studies Technology for Developing Regions User Experience Research Careers For Employers Why Hire I School? Events Request a Resume Book For Nonprofit and Government Employers Leadership Development Program Mailing List For Students & Alumni Events Resources Leadership Development Program Advising Jobscan & Applicant Tracking Systems Resume & LinkedIn Review Resume Book News Press Coverage Alumni News I School Voices Events Distinguished Lecture Series I School Lectures Information Access Seminars CLTC Events For the I School Community Alumni Events Women in MIDS Events

