Name: Stuart Russell

Description: Stuart Russell received his B.A. with first-class honours in physics from Oxford University in 1982 and his Ph.D. in computer science from Stanford in 1986. He then joined the faculty of the University of California at Berkeley, where he is Professor (and formerly Chair) of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences and holder of the Smith-Zadeh Chair in Engineering. He is also an Adjunct Professor of Neurological Surgery at UC San Francisco and Vice-Chair of the World Economic Forum’s Council on AI and Robotics.Russell is a recipient of the Presidential Young Investigator Award of the National Science Foundation, the IJCAI Computers and Thought Award, the World Technology Award (Policy category), the Mitchell Prize of the American Statistical Association and the International Society for Bayesian Analysis, the ACM Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award, and the AAAI/EAAI Outstanding Educator Award. In 1998, he gave the Forsythe Memorial Lectures at Stanford University and from 2012 to 2014 he held the Chaire Blaise Pascal in Paris. He is a Fellow of the American Association for Artificial Intelligence, the Association for Computing Machinery, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science.His research covers a wide range of topics in artificial intelligence including machine learning, probabilistic reasoning, knowledge representation, planning, real-time decision making, multitarget tracking, computer vision, computational physiology, global seismic monitoring, and philosophical foundations. His books include “The Use of Knowledge in Analogy and Induction”, “Do the Right Thing: Studies in Limited Rationality” (with Eric Wefald), and “Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach” (with Peter Norvig). His current concerns include the threat of autonomous weapons and the long-term future of artificial intelligence and its relation to humanity.

Title: Professor

Website: http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/~russell/

Email: russell@cs.berkeley.edu

Phone: (510) 642-4964

Address: University of California, Berkeley
727 Soda Hall
Berkeley, CA 94720 - 1776

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-stuart-russell/

Personal Website Text Short: Stuart Russell Stuart Russell Distinguished Professor of Computer Science , University of California, Berkeley, and Smith-Zadeh Professor in Engineering; Professor of Cognitive Science; Professor of Computational Precision Health, UCSF; and Honorary Fellow of Wadham College , Oxford Mailing address: Computer Science Division 387 Soda Hall University of California Berkeley, CA 94720-1776 Office location: 8040 Berkeley Way West Office hours: by appointment Email: please contact my assistant, JP, at jp@humancompatible.ai Information for prospective MS and PhD students Information for prospective interns Research group (Russell's Unusual Group of Students) Berkeley Artificial Intelligence Research (BAIR) See also the BAIR blog The Institute for Cognitive and Brain Sciences at Berkeley
## Meeting schedule Research areas , including publications by area Publications in chronological order CV Biography : long (350 words) , short (160 words) , very short (70 words) Other useful pointers: 2021 Reith Lectures: Living With Artificial Intelligence Human Compatible: AI and the Problem of Control Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach Have the machines taken over? Video of interview by Richard Sargeant, Westminster Abbey, November 20, 2018. Rationality and Intelligence , slides from the IJCAI 95 Computers and Thought lecture. Learning in Rational Agents , slides from NIPS 97 invited talk. What is to be done? , slides from AAAI 08 invited talk. Life: Play and Win in 20 Trillion Moves , slides from SARA 2011 invited talk. Unifying Logic and Probability; A New Dawn for AI? , slides from the Colloquium Sorbonne-Universités, Jan 2013. The Long-Term Future of (Artificial) Intelligence , slides from AAAI 2015 invited talk. Artificial Intelligence: Implications for Autonomous Weapons , address to the United Nations meeting on Lethal Autonomous Weapons Systems, Geneva, April 2015. Killer Robots, the End of Humanity, and All That: What's a Good AI Researcher to Do? , slides from IJCAI 2015 invited talk. Future of Artificial Intelligence and the Human Race , video from TEDxYouth@EB, Ecole Bilingue de Berkeley, November 14, 2015. Three principles for creating safer AI , TED talk, Vancouver, April 25, 2017. Provably Beneficial Artificial Intelligence (starts at 55.25), IJCAI 2017 invited talk ( slides here ) . Uncertainty in Objectives , slides from UAI 2018 invited talk. How Not to Destroy the World With AI , slides from AAAI 2020 keynote talk. Artificial Intelligence: Some Thoughts? , slides from IJCAI 2022 Research Excellence Award talk. How Not to Destroy the World With AI , slides from 2023 talk at Berkeley.

