Name: Subhas Desa

Description: Subhas Desa is the Undergraduate Director of the Information Systems and Technology Management Program in the School of Engineering at UC Santa Cruz. Dr. Desa has extensive research, teaching, consulting, and industrial experience in the development, management, and commercialization of technologies and products. His research areas include product design and development, manufacturing, advanced physical modeling and control, robotics, and, more recently, supply-chain modeling and control. His research work on the integration of design and manufacturing at Carnegie Mellon University, received the Eastman Kodak and American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) Design Automation Committee Award in 1989. At the Sibley School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at Cornell he developed new project-based graduate and undergraduate courses in product design and development, and also received an Engineering “Excellence in Teaching Award” in connection with teaching these courses. His industrial experience includes the development of the thermal ink jet at Hewlett Packard, physical modeling and control of complex technological systems ranging from giant magneto resistive (GMR) thin films to autonomous communication satellites at SC Solutions, and business strategy for High-Tech at McKinsey. At UCSC, he has created and taught a sequence of courses in the Management of Technology (MOT), and has been nominated for Excellence in Teaching in regard to teaching these courses. The first course in the MOT sequence focuses on the development, commercialization, and management of products, while the second course focuses on the analysis, design, and optimization of the supply chain network for the distribution of the product. Dr. Desa received his undergraduate degree from the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, and his Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering from Stanford University .

Title: Associate Adjunct Professor

Website: http://www.soe.ucsc.edu/~sdesa/

Email: sdesa@soe.ucsc.edu

Phone: (831) 459-1641

Address: University of California, Santa Cruz Baskin School of Engineering 1156 High St Mail Stop SOE3 Santa Cruz, CA 95064

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-subhas-desa/

Personal Website Text Short: Baskin School of Engineering – Baskin Engineering provides unique educational opportunities, world-class research with an eye to social responsibility and diversity. Skip to content ucsc.edu BE News Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Undergraduate Students Undergraduate Student Newsletter Current Graduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Graduate Student Newsletter Student Organizations Student Employment Staff & Faculty Menu About BE History BE Leadership Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Degree Programs Apply Departments Applied Mathematics Biomolecular Engineering Computational Media Computer Science and Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Statistics Engineering Management Programs Research People Engage Give BE News For Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Undergraduate Students Undergraduate Student Newsletter Current Graduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Graduate Student Newsletter Student Organizations Student Employment Staff & Faculty Home »  Home Home Be bold Inspiring engineers to elevate the world through bold and socially responsible innovation Join Us Be boundless Inspiring engineers to elevate the world through bold and socially responsible innovation Join Us Be a Baskin Engineer Inspiring engineers to elevate the world through bold and socially responsible innovation Join Us #2 top public colleges for engineering salaries (Wall Street Journal, 2023) #2 public university for students focused on making an impact in the world (Princeton Review, 2022) #5 best game/simulation development program in the nation (U.S. News & World Report, 2024) ASEE Bronze-level recognition by the American Society for Engineering Education, Diversity Recognition Program (2023-2025) AAU UCSC joined just 65 other universities in the Association of American Universities in 2019 #4 for social mobility, acknowledging our commitment to enrolling and graduating low-income students (U.S. News & World Report, 2020) HSRU member of the Alliance of Hispanic Serving Research Universities #5 of the top 50 Institutions by Total Bachelors Degrees awarded in Computer Science in Engineering (ASEE, 2020) Overview A campus of exceptional beauty in coastal Santa Cruz is home to a community of people who are problem solvers by nature: Baskin Engineers. Founded in 1997 alongside the expanding internet, our school is uniquely positioned to address the challenges of the modern world. At the Baskin School of Engineering, faculty and students collaborate to create technology with a positive impact on society, in the dynamic atmosphere of a top-tier research university. Social Media View this profile on Instagram Baskin Engineering at UCSC (@ baskinengineering ) • Instagram photos and videos Follow us on Recent News Ukraine blackouts caused by malware attacks warn against evolving cybersecurity threats to the physical world In Memoriam: David Draper Stem cell study reveals distinct population of ‘troublemaker’ platelet cells that appear with aging and lead to blood clotting, disease Baskin Engineering will lead regional hub of NSF Engineering PLUS Alliance to serve underrepresented students, faculty, and staff Three UC Santa Cruz faculty members elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences See All News Upcoming Events Baskin Engineering Commencement, 2024 See All Events Welcome to Baskin Engineering An exciting academic life awaits you Join a vibrant community of students, faculty, and researchers committed to building a better future. With a focus on socially responsible innovation in areas such as health engineering, climate and sustainability, machine learning, artificial intelligence, games, and human computer interaction, there are endless possibilities to make a positive impact. We can’t wait to see what you will accomplish here. Inclusion at Baskin Engineering UC Santa Cruz and Baskin Engineering are committed to creating educational equity that will lead to real, transformative change. We are one of only two institutions in the nation that holds the honor of being a Hispanic Serving Institution, an Asian American Native American Pacific Islander Serving Institution, and member of the Association of American Universities. Read More Genomics for everyone UCSC researchers release the first human ‘pangenome,’ better representing our genetic diversity and setting the stage for new discoveries. Read More The Silicon Valley Campus A multi-disciplinary teaching and research hub Learn More Baskin School of Engineering 1156 High Street Santa Cruz, CA 95064 Online Store Contact Us Careers Make a Gift UC Santa Cruz | Privacy Policy/Terms of Use | ©2024 Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. © 2024 Baskin School of Engineering • Built with GeneratePress

