Name: Susan Shaheen

Description: Susan Shaheen is a pioneer in future mobility strategies. She was among the first to observe, research and write about the changing dynamics in shared mobility and the likely scenarios through which automated vehicles will gain prominence. She is an internationally recognized expert in innovative mobility strategies and a professor in-residence in civil and environmental engineering at UC Berkeley. She also co-directs the Transportation Sustainability Research Center (TSRC) of the Institute of Transportation Studies at UC Berkeley. She was the first Honda Distinguished Scholar in Transportation at the Institute of Transportation Studies at UC Davis from 2000–12. She served as the Policy and Behavioral Research Program Leader at California Partners for Advanced Transit and Highways from 2003–07, and as a special assistant to the director’s office of the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) from 2001–04.She has a Ph.D. in ecology, with an emphasis on transportation engineering, from UC Davis and a M.S. in public policy analysis from the University of Rochester. After completing her master’s degree, she worked as a consultant to the U.S. Department of Energy and the Environmental Protection Agency in Washington, D.C. From 2000–01, she was a postdoctoral researcher at UC Berkeley. She has authored 84 journal articles, over 150 reports and proceedings articles, and 33 book chapters, and co-edited three books.Shaheen’s research projects on carsharing, smart parking and older mobility have received national awards. In May 2019, she received the Most Influential Paper Award from the World Conference on Transportation Research (awarded every three years) for her 2016 journal article inTransport Policy: “Just a Better Taxi? A Survey-Based Comparison of Taxis, Transit, and Ridesourcing Services in San Francisco.” In December 2018, she received the Institute of Transportation Studies at UC Berkeley faculty of the year award. She received the 2017 Roy W. Crum award from the Transportation Research Board (TRB) for her distinguished achievements in transportation research. In May 2016, she was named one of the top 10 academic thought leaders in transportation by the Eno Transportation Foundation. In 2010 and 2007, she received an Excellence in Management award from UC Berkeley.She served as chair of TRB’s Executive Committee from 2021–22, and she was vice chair from 2020–21. She served on the ITS World Congress program committee from 2002 to 2014 and was the chair of the Emerging and Innovative Public Transport and Technologies Committee of TRB (AP020) from 2004–11. She also served as chair of the Subcommittee for Shared-Use Vehicle Public Transport Systems of TRB from 2013–20.She is a member of the board of directors of the California Transportation Foundation. She serves as an associate editor for Transportation Research, Part A; Travel Behaviour and Society; and the Transportation Research Record. She was a desk editor for Transport Policy from 2016–21. She is a member of numerous editorial boards, including Transportation Research, Part D; the International Journal of Sustainable Transportation (IJST); Sustainable Engineering and Science Section, Sustainability; Environmental Research: Infrastructure and Sustainability; and Case Studies of Transport Policy. She was on the editorial board of the International Journal of Transportation Science and Technology from 2016–18. She also served as a guest editor for Transport Policy, Energies, and IJST. She is a member of the steering committee of the World Conference on Transport Research Society (2019–present) and the Mobile Source Technical Review Subcommittee to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Clean Air Act Advisory Committee from 2016–present. She also served as a member of the ITS Program Advisory Committee to the U.S. Department of Transportation secretary from 2014–18.

Title: Professor In-Residence of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Website: https://its.berkeley.edu/research-centers/tsrc

Email: sshaheen@berkeley.edu

Phone: nan

Address: University of California, Berkeley

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/susan-shaheen/

Personal Website Text Short: TSRC | Institute of Transportation Studies Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation Institute of Transportation Studies Search Terms Submit Search Home ITS @ 75 About Us ITS hosts a number of faculty members from nine UC Berkeley academic departments and schools and approximately 150 researchers and students are associated with ITS through our various research and educational activities. Overview Welcome ITS Leadership Directory Faculty and Lead Researchers Academic Partners ITS Senior Fellows History Jobs Research ITS Berkeley hosts many research opportunities and research centers Overview Research Centers Berkeley Request for Proposals ITS Center Pages ITS Library Transportation Data and Statistics Guide Student-Researcher Repository News & Events Learn more about the research and people at ITS Berkeley through our news and events. Overview Our Stories ITS in the News Events & Seminars Past Seminars Social Media Staff kudos ITS Berkeley Newsletter ITS@TRB Annual Wachs Lecture Series Publications Our faculty, staff, and students are well published in a variety of journals, publications and books. Overview Academic Publications Books by ITS Faculty ITS Publications Transportation, Race and Equity: A Syllabi Resource List for Faculty Students Our students are an integral part of the Institute through our research and activities. Overview Academic Affilations Connect TRANSOC Degree Programs Commencement Alumni Our alumni are a valued resource at ITS Berkeley, and we like to stay connected with them as they continue their career. Overview Alumni in Academia Alumni in the Private Sector Alumni in the Public Sector Donate Connect Secondary navigation Donate Now Join our mailing list Research Centers Home Research Research Centers TSRC TSRC Transportation Sustainability Research Center Develops knowledge and decision-support tools for sustainable transportation fuels, technologies, systems, policies, and planning The Transportation Sustainability Research Center (TSRC) researches innovative and readily-applied solutions that incorporate transportation technology, infrastructure, and human behavior in the areas of: • Advanced Vehicles and Fuels • Transportation Energy Systems • Mobility Justice (Social and Racial Equity) • Mobility and the Sharing Economy • Transportation Infrastructure • Passenger Transportation Systems • Goods Movement TSRC is the leader in shared mobility research, including bikesharing and its impacts on people, the community, and the environment. TSRC is also using technology, apps, and smart phones to encourage microtransit, ridesourcing/TNCs, and other forms of on-demand mobility. TSRC’s high-pressure hydrogen fueling station is the first in Northern California and provides fast fills of pressurized hydrogen gas for ongoing fuel cell vehicle testing. TSRC has been involved in many studies looking at the impact of carsharing on the number of vehicles on the road and GHGs emitted into the environment. tsrc.berkeley.edu/ Transportation Sustainability Research Center Directors Susan Shaheen Transportation Sustainability Research Center, Co-Director And Innovative Mobility Research Lab, Director Professor Transportation Sustainability Research Center Innovative Mobility Research Civil and Environmental Engineering Faculty Tim Lipman TSRC Co-Director Lead Researcher Transportation Sustainability Research Center Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory Renewable Energy Arpad Horvath TSRC Co-Director Professor Transportation Sustainability Research Center Civil and Environmental Engineering Faculty Life Cycle Analysis Transportation Sustainability Research Center Directory TSRC Research Research Centers PATH Berkeley DeepDrive TSRC SafeTREC NEXTOR TechTransfer Transportation Library UTCs UCPRC Smart Cities Legacy Centers Berkeley Request for Proposals ITS Center Pages ITS Library Transportation Data and Statistics Guide Student-Researcher Repository Follow us: Facebook X (formerly Twitter) LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Home Donate to ITS Berkeley Research Centers Credits Join our mailing list Institute of Transportation Studies 109 McLaughlin Hall MC 1720 Berkeley, CA 94720-1720 its@its.berkeley.edu Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright © 2024 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top

