Name: Susan Handy

Description: Dr. Susan Handy is a Professor in the Department of Environmental Science and Policy and the Director of the Sustainable Transportation Center at the University of California Davis. Her research interests focus on the relationships between transportation and land use, particularly the impact of land development patterns on travel behavior. She is internationally known for her research on the connection between neighborhood design and walking behavior. Her current work focuses on improving understanding the choice to bicycle as a mode of transportation. She is a member of the Committee on Women’s Issues in Transportation of the Transportation Research Board and has served on committees of the Institute of Medicine and the National Research Council.

Title: Professor

Website: http://www.des.ucdavis.edu/faculty/handy/

Email: slhandy@ucdavis.edu

Phone: 530-752-5878

Address: Department of Environmental Science and Policy 2130 Wickson Hall University of California at Davis Davis, CA  95616

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-susan-handy/

Personal Website Text Short: Dr. Susan Handy, Ph.D | Susan Handy Skip to main content Menu Susan Handy Susan Handy Open Search Search Quick Links + UC Davis Main navigation (extended config) Home Research Publications People News Classes Graduate Programs Position Title Professor Environmental Science & Policy she/her/hers 530-752-5878 530-752-3350 (FAX) slhandy@ucdavis.edu 2138 Wickson Hall Office Hours Email for an appointment Bio I am a professor in the Department of Environmental Science and Policy at the University of California at Davis, where I teach in the Environmental Policy Analysis and Planning major and in the Transportation Technology and Policy Program . I am also the director of the National Center for Sustainable Transportation , part of the federal university transportation centers program.  My research focuses on the relationships between transportation and land use, particularly the impact of land use on travel behavior, and on strategies for reducing automobile dependence.   My recent work includes projects for the California Air Resources Board and Caltrans on methods for evaluating the impacts on vehicle travel of proposed land development and transportation projects.  My book, Shifting Gears: Toward a New Way of Thinking About Transportation , published by MIT Press , is available for order through your local independent bookstore. I work with an amazing group of researchers, post-docs, and graduate students in the VaLUE Lab (i.e. VMT, land use, and equity) at the Institute of Transportation Studies ( ITS-Davis ).  Our bicycling work is housed at the BicyclingPlus Research Collaborative . Here is a relatively current version of my CV . Education and Degree(s) PhD, City and Regional Planning, UC Berkeley MS, Civil Engineering, Stanford BSE, Civil Engineering, Princeton Honors and Awards Thomas B. Deen Distinguished Lecture, January 2024 Fulbright Fellowship, 2022 Courses ESP 171 Urban and Regional Planning ESP 178 Research Methods TTP 220 Transportation Policy TTP 282 Transportation Orientation Seminar Recent Articles Susan Handy gives the Thomas B. Deen Distinguished Lecture March 13, 2024 Amy Lee wins CUTC dissertation award! March 13, 2024 Shifting Gears - available now! August 28, 2023 ITE Panel on Creating People-Oriented Communities August 18, 2023 Induced travel in the news! January 08, 2023 Subscribe to Recent Articles University of California, Davis , One Shields Avenue, Davis, CA 95616 | 530-752-1011 Questions or comments? Privacy & Accessibility Principles of Community University of California Sitemap Last update: March 13, 2024 Copyright © The Regents of the University of California, Davis campus. All rights reserved. This site is officially grown in SiteFarm .

