Name: Thomas Nesbitt

Description: Dr. Thomas Nesbitt is emeritus associate vice chancellor for strategic technologies and alliances at UC Davis Health, where he was responsible for advancing the UC Davis Health System’s excellence in telemedicine. Toward that goal, he worked closely with leaders throughout the state in developing partnerships with regional hospitals, clinics and centers to expand access to quality health care and create a statewide broadband telehealth network. He also ensured that faculty and staff excelled at using innovative technologies to provide high-quality, state-of-the-art medical care.A member of the UC Davis faculty since 1988, Nesbitt was a professor in the Department of Family and Community Medicine who specialized in rural health and using advanced telecommunications technologies to improve access to medical education and care. He has been a driving force behind a variety of innovative programs that address the unique health-care and educational needs of diverse populations of patients and physicians, particularly in rural Northern California.As founding director of the Center for Health and Technology, for instance, Nesbitt oversaw UC Davis’s telemedicine, distance learning and medical informatics programs. A key focus of the center is assuring interaction among physicians, educators, information technology and communications specialists, engineers, and researchers. The multidisciplinary collaboratives he established are responsible for leveraging new telecommunications technologies to improve access to high-quality patient care, information resources and medical education opportunities.Nesbitt also worked closely with UC Office of the President, health care policy leaders and senior staff from the state of California to implement Proposition 1D and the California Telehealth Network. The proposition, passed by California voters in November 2006, directs $200 million in building and equipment funds to the University of California to expand medical education with an emphasis on telemedicine. As co-director of the California Telehealth Network, funded by the Rural Healthcare Division of the Federal Communications Commission, Nesbitt oversaw the deployment of a statewide telecommunications program that will link over 800 sites on a “digital health highway.” Together, these initiatives will greatly expand access to health care services for many patients and families in rural regions of the state.Nesbitt served two terms on the National Advisory Committee on Rural Health and, more recently, on the Joint Advisory Committee on Communications Capabilities of Emergency Medical and Public Health Care Facilities reporting to the U.S. Congress 911 Commission to examine opportunities to utilize telecommunications to support the needs of national security.Nesbitt received his medical degree from UC Davis, completed his residency training through the Spokane Family Medicine Residency Program — an affiliate of the University of Washington School of Medicine — and obtained his master’s degree in public health at the University of Washington. He has co-authored more than 50 journal articles and book chapters on telemedicine. Nesbitt received the 2010 Leadership Award for the Advancement of Telemedicine from the American Telemedicine Association (ATA) in recognition of his vigorous efforts to expand health care access and education through the use of telecommunications technology. Nesbitt earlier was awarded the ATA’s 2006 President’s Award that recognized the breadth, depth and effectiveness of telemedicine programs and services offered at the UC Davis Center for Health and Technology. In 2009, he was recognized by the UC Davis School of Medicine Alumni Association with its Transformational Leadership Award. In 1997, Nesbitt received the Distinguished Alumnus Award from UC Davis; the year prior, he was presented with UC Davis’ Distinguished Public Service Award. Nesbitt received the California Family Physician of the Year award in 1993 and, in 1992, was honored with the Best Research Study Award from the Society of Teachers of Family Medicine.

Title: Campus Director Emeritus

Website: https://health.ucdavis.edu/medical-center/team/71/thomas-nesbitt---family-and-community-medicine---rural-health-care/

Email: thomas.nesbitt@citris-uc.org

Phone: (916) 734-1322

Address: University of California, Davis School of Medicine 4610 X Street, Suite 3101 Sacramento, CA 95817

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/thomas-nesbitt/

Personal Website Text Short: Thomas S. Nesbitt, M.D., M.P.H. for UC Davis Health search Search All UC Davis Health Main Menu add menu Main Menu close Main Menu Main Menu remove UC Davis Health Home Patients & Visitors Services & Specialties Health Care Professionals Schools & Programs Research News About UC Davis Health Giving Careers search Search × Search All UC Davis Health close Search All UC Davis Health how_to_reg MyUCDavisHealth Login person_search Find a Doctor location_on Directions and Parking video_camera_front Telehealth Services fact_check Wellness Classes biotech Search Clinical Trials volunteer_activism Giving and Volunteering Show menu menu Menu Services & Specialties Patients chevron_right chevron_left Back Patients arrow_forward Resources and information for our patients at the Medical Center. About Your Stay Your Care at Home Visiting the Medical Center chevron_right chevron_left Back Visiting the Medical Center arrow_forward Everything you need to know about visiting the Medical Center. Visitor Policies Directions and Parking Finding Your Way Around Places to Stay For People with Disabilities Appointments & Referrals About the Medical Center chevron_right chevron_left Back About the Medical Center arrow_forward Learn about the UC Davis Medical Center. Leadership Commitment to Quality and Safety Fellowships and Internships Contact Us Public Reporting News Quick Links how_to_reg MyUCDavisHealth Login person_search Find a Doctor location_on Directions and Parking video_camera_front Telehealth Services fact_check Wellness Classes biotech Search Clinical Trials volunteer_activism Giving and Volunteering Thomas S. Nesbitt, M.D., M.P.H. for UC Davis Health UC Davis Health Medical Center Thomas S. Nesbitt Thomas S. Nesbitt, M.D., M.P.H. Emeritus Associate Vice Chancellor for Strategic Technologies and Alliances Founding Director, Center for Health and Technology Print PDF Save contact Thomas S. Nesbitt is not currently accepting new patients. For assistance finding a UC Davis doctor,
                     please call 800-2-UCDAVIS (800-282-3284) . Reviews Specialties Family and Community Medicine Rural Health Care Department Office of the Dean, School of Medicine Office of the Vice Chancellor, Health System Locations and Contact Additional Numbers Phone 916-734-1322 Dropdown About Education Honors Publications Clinical Interests As associate vice chancellor for strategic technologies and alliances, Dr. Nesbitt advanced UC Davis Health's excellence in clinical outreach and technology-enabled models of care. He also served as interim vice chancellor for human health sciences and dean of the UC Davis School of Medicine from June 2013 to February 2014, and again as interim vice chancellor from spring 2017 to summer 2018. Dr. Nesbitt is internationally known and highly regarded as a pioneer in using telecommunications technology to deliver a broad spectrum of health-care services and health professional education in rural areas. He established UC Davis' first telehealth link in 1992. Today, thanks to his work, UC Davis (with its Center for Health and Technology) is recognized as a global leader in using telehealth and distance learning to meet the needs of populations in remote and underserved regions. Together with leaders of the National Cancer Institute-designated Cancer Center, Dr. Nesbitt launched the UC Davis Cancer Care Network, bringing advanced cancer care and the latest clinical research to Northern California's rural communities, as well as a robust telehealth program that brings UC Davis clinical expertise to patients in dozens of hospitals, clinics and even farm-labor camps throughout the state. Research/Academic Interests Dr. Nesbitt has led development of UC Davis' PRIME programs, which prepare physicians to serve in rural and underserved urban areas, and played a significant role in establishing UC Davis' Center for Virtual Care, a training resource for students and working professionals throughout the region. Dr. Nesbitt has authored or co-authored more than 60 journal articles, abstracts and book chapters on the use of telecommunications technology in health care and education, and has received numerous awards for his innovation and leadership. Center/Program Affiliation Center for Health and Technology Center for Healthcare Policy and Research Northern California Center for AIDS Research Undergraduate School B.A., UC Davis, Davis, California, 1975 Medical School M.D., UC Davis School of Medicine, Sacramento, California, 1979 Other School M.P.H., University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, 1988 Residency University of Washington, Spokane, Washington, 1979-1982 Fellowship University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, 1986-1988 Justin Ford Kimball Innovators Award, American Hospital Association, 2012 Distinguished Achievement Award, Cal Aggie Alumni Association, 2012 Leadership Award for the Advancement of Telemedicine, American Telemedicine Association, 2010 Transformational Leadership Award, UC Davis, School of Medicine, 2009 President's Award, American Telemedicine Association (accepted award on behalf of the UC Davis Center for Health and Technology), 2006 Community Service Award, Serotonin Surge Charity, 2005 Nesbitt T, Dharmar M, Katz-Bell J, Hartvigsen G, Marcin J, Telehealth at UC Davis - A 20-year experience. Telemedicine and e-Health . 2013;19(5):357-362. Dracup K, Moser D, Pelter M, Nesbitt T, Southard J, Paul S, Robinson S, Zègre Hemsey J, Cooper L. Rural patients' knowledge about heart failure. Journal of Cardiovascular Nursing . 2013. Dharmar M, Sadorra C, Leigh P, Yang N, Nesbitt T, Marcin J. The financial impact of a pediatric telemedicine program: A children's hospital's perspective. Telemedicine and e-Health . 2013;19(7):502-508. Meyers F, Hales R, Young H, Nesbitt T, Pomeroy C. Restructuring academic health centers to advance interdisciplinary collaborations: Opportunities for psychiatry departments. Academic Psychiatry . 2013;37(2):72-75. Dharmar M, Romano P, Kuppermann N, Nesbitt T, Cole S, Andrada E, Vance C, Harvey D, Marcin J. Impact of critical care telemedicine consultations on children in rural emergency departments. Critical Care Medicine . 2013;41(10):2388-2395. Armstrong A, Kwong M, Chase E, Ledo L, Nesbitt T, Shewry S. Why some dermatologists do not practice store-and-forward teledermatology. Archives of Dermatology . 2012;148(5):649-650. Cole S, Grubbs J, Din C, Nesbitt T. Rural inpatient telepharmacy consultation demonstration for after-hours medication review. Telemedicine and e-Health . 2012;18(7):530-537. Armstrong A, Kwong M, Chase E, Ledo L, Nesbitt T, Shewry S. Teledermatology operational considerations, challenges, and benefits: The referring providers' perspective. Telemedicine and e-Health . 2012;18(8):580-584. Everett W, Kvedar J, Nesbitt T. Telemonitoring in patients with heart failure. New England Journal of Medicine . 2011;364(11):1079. Robinson S, Moser D, Pelter M, Nesbitt T, Paul S, Dracup K. Assessing health literacy in heart failure patients. Journal of Cardiac Failure . 2011;17(11):887-8 Reviews About Our Survey UC Davis Medical Center Make a Gift 4301 X St. Sacramento, CA 95817 24-hour Hospital Operator: 916-734-2011 General Information: 800-282-3284 About UC Davis Medical Center About Us Contact Us News Commitment to Quality and Safety Quick Links MyUCDavisHealth Directions and Parking Visitor Policies Physician Referral Center Patients and Visitors With Disabilities Medical Center Children’s Hospital Rehabilitation Hospital Neighborhood clinics School of Medicine Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing Medical Group ABOUT UC DAVIS HEALTH About Us Contact Us Social Media Maps and Directions FOR PATIENTS MyUCDavisHealth Find a Provider or Faculty Clinic Locations Clinical Trials Referring Physicians Patient Financial Assistance Price Transparency COVID-19 Resources WE ARE PART OF UC Davis University of California Health University of California © 2024 UC Regents. All Rights Reserved  | Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy 4301 X St., Sacramento, CA 95817

