Name: Tingrui Pan

Description: Dr. Tingrui Pan is the Director of the MiNI Lab, an incubator for exploratory interdisciplinary research bridging nano engineering and biomedicine.Research interests include:Innovative Micro/Nanofabrication TechnologiesWe keep seeking simple and creative solutions to manufacture 2D and 3D micro and nanoscale structures in an inexpensive and reproducible way. Learning from emerging technologies in both chemistry and electronics, we are extensively exploring novel top-down and bottom-up approaches to establish MEMS fabrication schemes for future biological and medical applications.Bio-Inspired Micro/Nano Electromechanical SystemsThe field of bio-mimicry has attracted considerable attention recently. This is due to the ingenious ways in which nature has solved its evolutionary challenges through natural selection. We are particularly interested in transferring existing nature’s designs into our micro/nano world development. Several bio-inspired designs are currently under the investigation, including biological attachment systems, micromotion systems, biophotonic systems, and biofluidics.Bioinstrumentations for Ophthalmic Diagnosis and TherapeuticsWireless implantable micro/nanosystems are of particular importance in ophthalmology where the limited anatomical space requires miniature surgical instruments and implants. Our ongoing research focuses on design of bioinstrumentations, including implantable devices, for ophthalmic diagnosis and therapeutics. We are currently developing several novel clinical prototypes using flexible MEMS and electronics technologies.

Title: Associate Professor, Director

Website: https://bme.ucdavis.edu/people/departmental-faculty/tingrui-pan/

Email: trpan@ucdavis.edu

Phone: (530) 754-9508

Address: University of California, Davis
Department of Biomedical Engineering
One Shields Ave.
Davis, Ca 95616

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-tingrui-pan/

Personal Website Text Short: Page not found | UC Davis Biomedical Engineering Skip to main content Menu UC Davis Biomedical Engineering Open Search Search Quick Links + Facilities Directory Map and Directions Apply Lab Safety Internships Job Opportunities Department Resources Events BME Graduate Group Academic Dates and Deadlines Emergency Services Main navigation (extended config) About Letter from the Chair Advisory Board Maroney-Bryan Lecture Beyond the Seminar Podcast Directory Maps and Directions Undergraduate Newly Admitted Students Prospective Students What Can I Do With a BME Degree? Biomedical Engineering at UC Davis Transfer Admissions BME Major & Minor Specializations Current Course Offerings Registration & Prerequisites Registration Resources Prerequisite Requirements Advising Changing Majors to BME Tutoring Resources Frequently Asked Questions Beyond the Classroom BMES Student Chapter Internships Research Study Abroad Quarter at Aggie Square Student Resources ABET Graduate Faculty & Research Biomaterials and Devices Biomechanics and Mechanobiology Biomedical Imaging and Biophotonics Computational and Synthetic Biology Education Molecular, Cell and Tissue Engineering Neuroengineering and Bioelectricity Equity and Wellness Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Activities News Give Page not found Breadcrumb Home People Page not found The requested page could not be found. University of California, Davis , One Shields Avenue, Davis, CA 95616 | 530-752-1011 Questions or comments? Privacy & Accessibility Principles of Community University of California Sitemap Last update: May 14, 2024 Copyright © The Regents of the University of California, Davis campus. All rights reserved. This site is officially grown in SiteFarm .

