Name: Valeria La Saponara

Description: Dr. Valeria La Saponara received her Bachelor’s degree in 1994 in aerospace engineering from the University of Naples, Italy. She worked as a research fellow at the MARS Center, Italy, a subcontractor of NASA and the European Space Agency. She then went to the U.S. and completed her Master’s and Ph.D. in 2001, both in aerospace engineering, from the Georgia Institute of Technology.As a graduate student, she was the recipient of a fellowship from the University of Naples, two Amelia Earhart International Awards, the Clare Booth Luce Fellowship, the Luther Long III Award for Excellence in Mechanics.After working as instructor in Civil and Environmental Engineering at Georgia Tech for one year, she became an assistant professor in mechanical engineering at the University of Utah. In July 2005, she joined the faculty of the University of California, Davis.She conducts research on applied mechanics of composite structures. She works on the durability of fiber-reinforced polymer composites. We study different aspects, from experimental characterization of composites under hygrothermal-mechanical-chemical degradation, to smart composites with embedded sensors.In 2007 she received a CAREER Award from the National Science Foundation.

Title: Assistant professor

Website: http://mae.ucdavis.edu/vlasaponara/

Email: vlasaponara@ucdavis.edu

Phone: (530) 754-8938

Address: University of California, Davis 2132 Bainer Hall One Shields Avenue Davis, CA 95616

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-valeria-la-saponara/

Personal Website Text Short: Valeria La Saponara | Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Skip to main content Menu Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Open Search Search Quick Links + Apply Directory Laboratory Safety Events Course Schedules Department Resources Maps and Directions College of Engineering Emergency Services Campus Map Course Catalog Schedule Builder COE Resources Intranet Department Opportunities MAE Teaching Faculty Resources Main navigation (extended config) About Letter from the Chair Advisory Board Directory Maps and Directions Commitment to Diversity Undergraduate Aerospace Engineering Areas of Interest in Aerospace Engineering Mechanical Engineering Areas of Interest in Mechanical Engineering Undergraduate Advising New Students - Aggie Advising Chevron Tutoring Center Student Organizations ABET MAE Course Schedule Enrollment Policies Graduate Doctoral Degree Master of Science Admissions Application Requirements Frequently Asked Questions Current Graduate Students Graduate Program Faculty Graduate Student Organization Graduate Contacts Graduate Courses Faculty & Research Design, Manufacturing, MEMS and Nanostructures Dynamics, Controls, Vehicles and Robotics Energy, Propulsion and Environment Fluid Mechanics and Aerodynamics Human-Systems Engineering Mechanics of Solids, Structures and Materials Research Centers and Laboratories News Give Valeria La Saponara Breadcrumb Home Directory Valeria La Saponara Position Title Professor Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering 530-754-8938 vlasaponara@ucdavis.edu Faculty Website 2100 Bainer Hall Bio Applied mechanics of composite structures, aerospace structures Professor La Saponara and her students investigate the durability of fiber-reinforced composites for aerospace, civil, naval and wind energy applications. She has investigated several and diverse aspects of durability, from performance under impact to fatigue through destructive testing and structural health monitoring. She has built national and international collaborations throughout the years, which have resulted in strong multidisciplinary research across materials science, mechanics and, most recently, astrophysics. Undergraduate and graduate students in the Advanced Composites Research, Engineering and Science (ACRES) Laboratory learn about manufacturing, testing and characterizing fiber-reinforced polymer composites. Tags Mechanics of Solids, Structures and Materials Graduate Program Faculty Content by Valeria La Saponara UC Davis Team Shines in Global Fungi Competition, Paving the Way for Sustainable Construction December 12, 2023 The Might of Mycelium May 10, 2022 “Fungi to save the world” December 02, 2021 Valeria La Saponara’s Lab wins UC Davis Lab Safety Award October 13, 2021 Space Engineering at UC Davis October 30, 2019 University of California, Davis , One Shields Avenue, Davis, CA 95616 | 530-752-1011 Questions or comments? Privacy & Accessibility Principles of Community University of California Sitemap Last update: September 6, 2023 Copyright © The Regents of the University of California, Davis campus. All rights reserved. This site is officially grown in SiteFarm .

