Name: Venkatesh Akella

Description: Professor Akella’s research is the design and implementation of high performance and low power computing systems. Over the years he has worked in systems that encompass a variety of application domains such as multimedia, networking, error-correcting codes, computational biology, and scientific computing.He is currently working on the following research projects.1.Interconnectsbetween processors on and off-chip and processors and memory is the critical bottleneck in terms of power consumption and performance in computing systems. We are exploring the use of novel technologies such as nanoscale photonics and architectural techniques to design interconnects that can scale to exascale systems i.e. systems with million’s of processors.2.Simulationis widely used to evaluate the performance of computing systems especially during the design phase. It is inherently a trade-off between accuracy and simulation time. Reconfigurable FPGAs are particularly useful in accelerating simulation speed without compromising accuracy. We are building FPGA-based simulation engines for computing systems that can yield new insights into on and off-chip network and memory traffic.3.Smartphonesare the personal computing devices of the future. We are developing tools and techniques to optimize software to prolong the battery-life on these new category of embedded systems.

Title: Professor

Website: https://faculty.engineering.ucdavis.edu/akella/biography/

Email: akella@ucdavis.edu

Phone: (415) 347-5764

Address: University of California, Davis 2117 Kemper Hall One Shields Avenue Davis, CA 95616

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/venkatesh-akella/

Personal Website Text Short: Biography – Akella, Venkatesh Akella, Venkatesh Menu Home Biography Teaching Past Research Current Research Biography Education Ph.D.  Computer Science, University of Utah, Salt Lake City M.S.   Electrical & Computer Engineering,  Indian Institute of Science (IISc) Academic Experience 2006 – Present:     Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering 2021 – Present:      Faculty Scientist, Computer Science Research Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory 2017 – 2018:         Faculty Director Online Graduate Education, University of California, Davis 2010 – 2012:         Chair, Electrical & Computer Engineering  Graduate Program 2010 – 2012:         Vice Chair Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering 1998 – 2006: Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering 1992 – 1998:         Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering Facebook-f Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Flickr Privacy & Accessibility | Principles of Community | University of California

