Name: Zhaojun Bai

Description: Zhaojun Bai is a Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Department of Mathematics, University of California, Davis, and a Faculty Computer Scientist at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. He obtained his Ph.D. from Fudan University, China, and postdoctoral fellowship from Courant Institute, New York University. His main research interests include linear algebra algorithm design and analysis, mathematical software engineering and applications in computational science and engineering, and data science. He participated in a number of synergistic projects, such as LAPACK. He is an Editor-in-Chief of ACM TOMS and serves on editorial boards of JCM and Science China Mathematics among others. Previously, he served as an associate editor of SIMAX, vice-chair of IEEE IPDPS, and numerous other professional positions. He is a Fellow of SIAM.

Title: Professor

Website: https://faculty.engineering.ucdavis.edu/bai/

Email: bai@cs.ucdavis.edu

Phone: (530) 752-4874

Address: University of California, Davis Department of Computer Science One Shields Avenue Davis, CA 95616

Profile URL: https://citris-uc.org/people/person/professor-zhaojun-bai/

Personal Website Text Short: Bai, Zhaojun – Computer Science UC Davis College of Engineering Maps and Directions Skip to content Faculty Biography Publications Teaching Software Home Professor Zhaojun Bai Department of Computer Science 3005 Kemper Hall University of California Davis, CA 95616 Email: bai at cs.ucdavis.edu Phone: (530) 752-4874 Research Applied numerical linear algebra and matrix computations, iterative methods, software development and high performance computing. Recent work has focused on reduced-order modeling of very large dynamical systems and applications in interconnect analysis of intergrated circuits, dynamics of structures, and microelectromechanical systems (MEMS), and the study of efficient algorithms for data clustering and segmentation. Comments are closed. Professor Zhaojun Bai Computer Science University of California Davis, CA 95616 Email: bai at cs.ucdavis.edu Phone: (530) 752-4874 Privacy and Accessibility UC Davis Principles of Community Copyright © The Regents of the University of California, Davis campus. All Rights Reserved.

